Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
CHAPTER ONE
THE BOY WHO LIVED
Mr. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proudto say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. Theywere the last people you'd expect to be involved in anything strangeor mysterious, because they just didn't hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, whichmade drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, althoughhe did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin and blondeand had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which came in veryuseful as she spent so much of her time craning over garden fences,spying on the neighbors. The Dursleys had a small son called Dudleyand in their opinion there was no finer boy anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had asecret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discoverit. They didn't think they could bear it if anyone found out aboutthe Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley's sister, but they hadn'tmet for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn'thave a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husbandwere as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys shudderedto think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in thestreet. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too,but they had never even seen him. This boy was another good reasonfor keeping the Potters away; they didn't want Dudley mixing witha child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesdayour story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside tosuggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happeningall over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his mostboring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily as shewrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, peckedMrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye butmissed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing hiscereal at the walls. "Little tyke," chortled Mr. Dursley as he leftthe house. He got into his car and backed out of number four's drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the firstsign of something peculiar -- a cat reading a map. For a second,Mr. Dursley didn't realize what he had seen -- then he jerked hishead around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing on thecorner of Privet Drive, but there wasn't a map in sight. Whatcould he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick ofthe light. Mr. Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It staredback. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, hewatched the cat in his mirror. It was now reading the sign thatsaid Privet Drive -- no, looking at the sign; cats couldn't readmaps or signs. Mr. Dursley gave himself a little shake and put thecat out of his mind. As he drove toward town he thought of nothingexcept a large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mindby something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, hecouldn't help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangelydressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn't bearpeople who dressed in funny clothes -- the getups you saw on youngpeople! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He drummed hisfingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a huddle of theseweirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedlytogether. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a couple of themweren't young at all; why, that man had to be older than he was,and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of him! But then itstruck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some silly stunt -- thesepeople were obviously collecting for something... yes, that wouldbe it. The traffic moved on and a few minutes later, Mr. Dursleyarrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his officeon the ninth floor. If he hadn't, he might have found it harder toconcentrate on drills that morning. He didn't see the owls swoop ingpast in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; theypointed and gazed open- mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead. Mostof them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley,however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled atfive different people. He made several important telephone callsand shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime,when he thought he'd stretch his legs and walk across the road tobuy himself a bun from the bakery.
He'd forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passeda group of them next to the baker's. He eyed them angrily as hepassed. He didn't know why, but they made him uneasy. This bunch werewhispering excitedly, too, and he couldn't see a single collectingtin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large doughnutin a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were saying.
"The Potters, that's right, that's what I heard yes, theirson, Harry"
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked backat the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, butthought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office,snapped at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone,and had almost finished dialing his home number when he changedhis mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache,thinking... no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn't such an unusualname. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who had ason called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn't even sure his nephewwas called Harry. He'd never even seen the boy. It might have beenHarvey. Or Harold. There was no point in worrying Mrs. Dursley;she always got so upset at any mention of her sister. He didn'tblame her -- if he'd had a sister like that... but all the same,those people in cloaks...
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoonand when he left the building at five o'clock, he was still soworried that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
"Sorry," he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almostfell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the manwas wearing a violet cloak. He didn't seem at all upset at beingalmost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split intoa wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersbystare, "Don't be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset metoday! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggleslike yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!"
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle andwalked off.
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged bya complete stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle,whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and setoff for home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had neverhoped before, because he didn't approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thinghe saw -- and it didn't improve his mood -- was the tabby cat he'dspotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He wassure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.
"Shoo!" said Mr. Dursley loudly. The cat didn't move. It justgave him a stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursleywondered. Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into thehouse. He was still determined not to mention anything to his wife.
Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him overdinner all about Mrs. Next Door's problems with her daughter andhow Dudley had learned a new word ("Won't!"). Mr. Dursley triedto act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into theliving room in time to catch the last report on the evening news:
"And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that thenation's owls have been behaving very unusually today. Althoughowls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight,there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in everydirection since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owlshave suddenly changed their sleeping pattern." The newscaster allowedhimself a grin. "Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim McGuffinwith the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls tonight, Jim?"
"Well, Ted," said the weatherman, "I don't know about that, butit's not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewersas far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in totell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they've hada downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been celebratingBonfire Night early -- it's not until next week, folks! But I canpromise a wet night tonight."
Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all overBritain? Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks allover the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters...
Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups oftea. It was no good. He'd have to say something to her. He clearedhis throat nervously. "Er -- Petunia, dear -- you haven't heardfrom your sister lately, have you?"
As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and angry. Afterall, they normally pretended she didn't have a sister.
"No," she said sharply. "Why?"
"Funny stuff on the news," Mr. Dursley mumbled. "Owls... shootingstars... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in towntoday..."
"So?" snapped Mrs. Dursley.
"Well, I just thought... maybe... it was something to dowith... you know... her crowd."
Mrs. Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr. Dursleywondered whether he dared tell her he'd heard the name "Potter." Hedecided he didn't dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could,"Their son -- he'd be about Dudley's age now, wouldn't he?"
"I suppose so," said Mrs. Dursley stiffly.
"What's his name again? Howard, isn't it?"
"Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me."
"Oh, yes," said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. "Yes,I quite agree."
He didn't say another word on the subject as they went upstairsto bed. While Mrs. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr. Dursley creptto the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden. Thecat was still there. It was staring down Privet Drive as though itwere waiting for something.
Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do withthe Potters? If it did... if it got out that they were related toa pair of -- well, he didn't think he could bear it.
The Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep quicklybut Mr. Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. Hislast, comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if thePotters were involved, there was no reason for them to come near himand Mrs. Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and Petuniathought about them and their kind.... He couldn't see how he andPetunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going on --he yawned and turned over -- it couldn't affect them....
How very wrong he was.
Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, butthe cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It wassitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the farcorner of Privet Drive. It didn't so much as quiver when a car doorslammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead. Infact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appearedso suddenly and silently you'd have thought he'd just popped outof the ground. The cat's tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. Hewas tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hairand beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. Hewas wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground,and high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light, bright,and sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was verylong and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. Thisman's name was Albus Dumbledore.
Albus Dumbledore didn't seem to realize that he had justarrived in a street where everything from his name to his bootswas unwelcome. He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking forsomething. But he did seem to realize he was being watched, becausehe looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him fromthe other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the catseemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, "I should have known."
He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It seemedto be a silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it upin the air, and clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out witha little pop. He clicked it again -- the next lamp flickered intodarkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the onlylights left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in thedistance, which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyonelooked out of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley,they wouldn't be able to see anything that was happening down onthe pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside hiscloak and set off down the street toward number four, where he satdown on the wall next to the cat. He didn't look at it, but aftera moment he spoke to it.
"Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall."
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead hewas smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing squareglasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had aroundits eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her blackhair was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinctly ruffled.
"How did you know it was me?" she asked.
"My dear Professor, I 've never seen a cat sit so stiffly."
"You'd be stiff if you'd been sitting on a brick wall all day,"said Professor McGonagall.
"All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must havepassed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here."
Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.
"Oh yes, everyone's celebrating, all right," she saidimpatiently. "You'd think they'd be a bit more careful, butno -- even the Muggles have noticed something's going on. Itwas on their news." She jerked her head back at the Dursleys'dark living-room window. "I heard it. Flocks of owls... shootingstars.... Well, they're not completely stupid. They were bound tonotice something. Shooting stars down in Kent -- I'll bet that wasDedalus Diggle. He never had much sense."
"You can't blame them," said Dumbledore gently. "We've hadprecious little to celebrate for eleven years."
"I know that," said Professor McGonagall irritably. "But that'sno reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless,out on the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggleclothes, swapping rumors."
She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore here, as thoughhoping he was going to tell her something, but he didn't, so shewent on. "A fine thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Whoseems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about usall. I suppose he really has gone, Dumbledore?"
"It certainly seems so," said Dumbledore. "We have much to bethankful for. Would you care for a lemon drop?"
"A what?"
"A lemon drop. They're a kind of Muggle sweet I'm rather fond of"
"No, thank you," said Professor McGonagall coldly, as thoughshe didn't think this was the moment for lemon drops. "As I say,even if You-Know-Who has gone -"
"My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself cancall him by his name? All this 'You- Know-Who' nonsense -- for elevenyears I have been trying to persuade people to call him by his propername: Voldemort." Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore,who was unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. "It allgets so confusing if we keep saying 'You-Know-Who.' I have neverseen any reason to be frightened of saying Voldemort's name.
"I know you haven 't, said Professor McGonagall, soundinghalf exasperated, half admiring. "But you're different. Everyoneknows you're the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort,was frightened of."
"You flatter me," said Dumbledore calmly. "Voldemort had powersI will never have."
"Only because you're too -- well -- noble to use them."
"It's lucky it's dark. I haven't blushed so much since MadamPomfrey told me she liked my new earmuffs."
Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dumbledore and said,"The owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. Youknow what everyone's saying? About why he's disappeared? About whatfinally stopped him?"
It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point shewas most anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting ona cold, hard wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman hadshe fixed Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as she did now. Itwas plain that whatever "everyone" was saying, she was not goingto believe it until Dumbledore told her it was true. Dumbledore,however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not answer.
"What they're saying," she pressed on, "is that last nightVoldemort turned up in Godric's Hollow. He went to find thePotters. The rumor is that Lily and James Potter are -- are --that they're -- dead. "
Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.
"Lily and James... I can't believe it... I didn't want tobelieve it... Oh, Albus..."
Dumbledore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. "Iknow... I know..." he said heavily.
Professor McGonagall's voice trembled as she went on. "That'snot all. They're saying he tried to kill the Potter's son, Harry. But-- he couldn't. He couldn't kill that little boy. No one knows why,or how, but they're saying that when he couldn't kill Harry Potter,Voldemort's power somehow broke -- and that's why he's gone.
Dumbledore nodded glumly.
"It's -- it's true?" faltered Professor McGonagall. "After allhe's done... all the people he's killed... he couldn't kill a littleboy? It's just astounding... of all the things to stop him... buthow in the name of heaven did Harry survive?"
"We can only guess," said Dumbledore. "We may never know."
Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbedat her eyes beneath her spectacles. Dumbledore gave a great sniffas he took a golden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was avery odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, littleplanets were moving around the edge. It must have made sense toDumbledore, though, because he put it back in his pocket and said,"Hagrid's late. I suppose it was he who told you I'd be here,by the way?"
"Yes," said Professor McGonagall. "And I don't suppose you'regoing to tell me why you're here, of all places?"
"I've come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They're theonly family he has left now."
"You don't mean -- you can't mean the people who livehere?" cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointingat number four. "Dumbledore -- you can't. I've been watching themall day. You couldn't find two people who are less like us. Andthey've got this son -- I saw him kicking his mother all the way upthe street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!"
"It's the best place for him," said Dumbledore firmly. "Hisaunt and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he'solder. I've written them a letter."
"A letter?" repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting backdown on the wall. "Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain allthis in a letter? These people will never understand him! He'll befamous -- a legend -- I wouldn't be surprised if today was knownas Harry Potter day in the future -- there will be books writtenabout Harry -- every child in our world will know his name!"
"Exactly," said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over thetop of his half-moon glasses. "It would be enough to turn any boy'shead. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something hewon't even remember! CarA you see how much better off he'll be,growing up away from all that until he's ready to take it?"
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind,swallowed, and then said, "Yes -- yes, you're right, of course. Buthow is the boy getting here, Dumbledore?" She eyed his cloak suddenlyas though she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath it.
"Hagrid's bringing him."
"You think it -- wise -- to trust Hagrid with something asimportant as this?"
I would trust Hagrid with my life," said Dumbledore.
"I'm not saying his heart isn't in the right place," saidProfessor McGonagall grudgingly, "but you can't pretend he's notcareless. He does tend to -- what was that?"
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grewsteadily louder as they looked up and down the street for some signof a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up at thesky -- and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed on theroad in front of them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sittingastride it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and atleast five times as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed,and so wild - long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most ofhis face, he had hands the size of trash can lids, and his feet intheir leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, musculararms he was holding a bundle of blankets.
"Hagrid," said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. "At last. Andwhere did you get that motorcycle?"
"Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sit," said the giant,climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. "Young SiriusBlack lent it to me. I've got him, sir."
"No problems, were there?"
"No, sir -- house was almost destroyed, but I got him out allright before the Muggles started swarmin' around. He fell asleepas we was flyin' over Bristol."
Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the bundleof blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Undera tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiouslyshaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.
"Is that where -?" whispered Professor McGonagall.
"Yes," said Dumbledore. "He'll have that scar forever."
"Couldn't you do something about it, Dumbledore?"
"Even if I could, I wouldn't. Scars can come in handy. I haveone myself above my left knee that is a perfect map of the LondonUnderground. Well -- give him here, Hagrid -- we'd better get thisover with."
Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the Dursleys'house.
"Could I -- could I say good-bye to him, sir?" asked Hagrid. Hebent his great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must havebeen a very scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid letout a howl like a wounded dog.
"Shhh!" hissed Professor McGonagall, "you'll wake the Muggles!"
"S-s-sorry," sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spottedhandkerchief and burying his face in it. "But I c-c-can't stand it-- Lily an' James dead -- an' poor little Harry off ter live withMuggles -"
"Yes, yes, it's all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid,or we'll be found," Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagridgingerly on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden walland walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep,took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry's blankets,and then came back to the other two. For a full minute the three ofthem stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid's shoulders shook,Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and the twinkling lightthat usually shone from Dumbledore's eyes seemed to have gone out.
"Well," said Dumbledore finally, "that's that. We've no businessstaying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations."
"Yeah," said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, "I'll be takin'Sirius his bike back. G'night, Professor McGonagall -- ProfessorDumbledore, sir."
Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swunghimself onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; witha roar it rose into the air and off into the night.
"I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall," saidDumbledore, nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nosein reply.
Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the cornerhe stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it once,and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so thatPrivet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a tabbycat slinking around the corner at the other end of the street. Hecould just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number four.
"Good luck, Harry," he murmured. He turned on his heel and witha swish of his cloak, he was gone.
A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which laysilent and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you wouldexpect astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled overinside his blankets without waking up. One small hand closed onthe letter beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special,not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in a fewhours' time by Mrs. Dursley's scream as she opened the front doorto put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next fewweeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley... He couldn'tknow that at this very moment, people meeting in secret all over thecountry were holding up their glasses and saying in hushed voices:"To Harry Potter -- the boy who lived!"
CHAPTER TWO
THE VANISHING GLASS
Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up tofind their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardlychanged at all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens andlit up the brass number four on the Dursleys' front door; it creptinto their living room, which was almost exactly the same as ithad been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful newsreport about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece reallyshowed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there had been lotsof pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearingdifferent-colored bonnets -- but Dudley Dursley was no longer ababy, and now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding hisfirst bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing a computer gamewith his father, being hugged and kissed by his mother. The roomheld no sign at all that another boy lived in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but notfor long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voicethat made the first noise of the day.
"Up! Get up! Now!"
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
"Up!" she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchenand then the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. Herolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he had beenhaving. It had been a good one. There had been a flying motorcyclein it. He had a funny feeling he'd had the same dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
"Are you up yet?" she demanded.
"Nearly," said Harry.
"Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. Anddon't you dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy'sbirthday."
Harry groaned.
"What did you say?" his aunt snapped through the door.
"Nothing, nothing..."
Dudley's birthday -- how could he have forgotten? Harry gotslowly out of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pairunder his bed and, after pulling a spider off one of them, put themon. Harry was used to spiders, because the cupboard under the stairswas full of them, and that was where he slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. Thetable was almost hidden beneath all Dudley's birthday presents. Itlooked as though Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted,not to mention the second television and the racing bike. Exactlywhy Dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry, as Dudleywas very fat and hated exercise -- unless of course it involvedpunching somebody. Dudley's favorite punching bag was Harry, but hecouldn't often catch him. Harry didn't look it, but he was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard,but Harry had always been small and skinny for his age. He lookedeven smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he had towear were old clothes of Dudley's, and Dudley was about four timesbigger than he was. Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees, black hair,and bright green eyes. He wore round glasses held together with alot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley had punched himon the nose. The only thing Harry liked about his own appearancewas a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a boltof lightning. He had had it as long as he could remember, and thefirst question he could ever remember asking his Aunt Petunia washow he had gotten it.
"In the car crash when your parents died," she had said. "Anddon't ask questions."
Don't ask questions -- that was the first rule for a quiet lifewith the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning overthe bacon.
"Comb your hair!" he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of hisnewspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must havehad more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put
together, but it made no difference, his hair simply grew thatway -- all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchenwith his mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had alarge pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thickblond hair that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petuniaoften said that Dudley looked like a baby angel -- Harry often saidthat Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which wasdifficult as there wasn't much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was countinghis presents. His face fell.
"Thirty-six," he said, looking up at his mother andfather. "That's two less than last year."
"Darling, you haven't counted Auntie Marge's present, see,it's here under this big one from Mommy and Daddy."
"All right, thirty-seven then," said Dudley, going red in theface. Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, beganwolfing down his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turnedthe table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she saidquickly, "And we'll buy you another two presents while we're outtoday. How's that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right''
Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finallyhe said slowly, "So I'll have thirty ... thirty..."
"Thirty-nine, sweetums," said Aunt Petunia.
"Oh." Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearestparcel. "All right then."
Uncle Vernon chuckled. "Little tyke wants his money's worth,just like his father. 'Atta boy, Dudley!" He ruffled Dudley's hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went toanswer it while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap theracing bike, a video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteennew computer games, and a VCR. He was ripping the paper off a goldwristwatch when Aunt Petunia came back from the telephone lookingboth angry and worried.
"Bad news, Vernon," she said. "Mrs. Figg's broken her leg. Shecan't take him." She jerked her head in Harry's direction.
Dudley's mouth fell open in horror, but Harry's heart gave aleap. Every year on Dudley's birthday, his parents took him and afriend out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants,or the movies. Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, amad old lady who lived two streets away. Harry hated it there. Thewhole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg made him look atphotographs of all the cats she'd ever owned.
"Now what?" said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry asthough he'd planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry thatMrs. Figg had broken her leg, but it wasn't easy when he remindedhimself it would be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbles,Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again.
"We could phone Marge," Uncle Vernon suggested.
"Don't be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy."
The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though hewasn't there -- or rather, as though he was something very nastythat couldn't understand them, like a slug.
"What about what's-her-name, your friend -- Yvonne?"
"On vacation in Majorca," snapped Aunt Petunia.
"You could just leave me here," Harry put in hopefully (he'd beable to watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybeeven have a go on Dudley's computer).
Aunt Petunia looked as though she'd just swallowed a lemon.
"And come back and find the house in ruins?" she snarled.
"I won't blow up the house," said Harry, but they weren'tlistening.
"I suppose we could take him to the zoo," said Aunt Petuniaslowly, "... and leave him in the car...."
"That car's new, he's not sitting in it alone...."
Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn't really crying --it had been years since he'd really cried -- but he knew that if hescrewed up his face and wailed, his mother would give him anythinghe wanted.
"Dinky Duddydums, don't cry, Mummy won't let him spoil yourspecial day!" she cried, flinging her arms around him.
"I... don't... want... him... t-t-to come!" Dudley yelledbetween huge, pretend sobs. "He always sp- spoils everything!" Heshot Harry a nasty grin through the gap in his mother's arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang -- "Oh, good Lord, they'rehere!" said Aunt Petunia frantically -- and a moment later, Dudley'sbest friend, Piers Polkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers wasa scrawny boy with a face like a rat. He was usually the one whoheld people's arms behind their backs while Dudley hit them. Dudleystopped pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn't believe his luck, wassitting in the back of the Dursleys' car with Piers and Dudley,on the way to the zoo for the first time in his life. His aunt anduncle hadn't been able to think of anything else to do with him,but before they'd left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.
"I'm warning you," he had said, putting his large purple faceright up close to Harry's, "I'm warning you now, boy -- any funnybusiness, anything at all -- and you'll be in that cupboard fromnow until Christmas."
"I'm not going to do anything," said Harry, "honestly..
But Uncle Vernon didn't believe him. No one ever did.
The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry andit was just no good telling the Dursleys he didn't make them happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barberslooking as though he hadn't been at all, had taken a pair of kitchenscissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except forhis bangs, which she left "to hide that horrible scar." Dudley hadlaughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless night imaginingschool the next day, where he was already laughed at for his baggyclothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however, he had gottenup to find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt Petunia hadsheared it off He had been given a week in his cupboard for this,even though he had tried to explain that he couldn't explain howit had grown back so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into arevolting old sweater of Dudley's (brown with orange puff balls) --The harder she tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemedto become, until finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, butcertainly wouldn't fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must haveshrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn't punished.
On the other hand, he'd gotten into terrible trouble for beingfound on the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley's gang had beenchasing him as usual when, as much to Harry's surprise as anyoneelse's, there he was sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys hadreceived a very angry letter from Harry's headmistress telling themHarry had been climbing school buildings. But all he'd tried todo (as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of hiscupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchendoors. Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in mid-jump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth beingwith Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that wasn'tschool, his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg's cabbage-smelling living room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He likedto complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council, Harry,the bank, and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects. Thismorning, it was motorcycles.
"... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums," he said,as a motorcycle overtook them.
I had a dream about a motorcycle," said Harry, rememberingsuddenly. "It was flying."
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turnedright around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like agigantic beet with a mustache: "MOTORCYCLES DON'T FLY!"
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
I know they don't," said Harry. "It was only a dream."
But he wished he hadn't said anything. If there was one thingthe Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it washis talking about anything acting in a way it shouldn't, no matterif it was in a dream or even a cartoon -- they seemed to think hemight get dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded withfamilies. The Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolateice creams at the entrance and then, because the smiling lady inthe van had asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry himaway, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It wasn't bad, either,Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching itshead who looked remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn't blond.
Harry had the best morning he'd had in a long time. He wascareful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so thatDudley and Piers, who were starting to get bored with the animalsby lunchtime, wouldn't fall back on their favorite hobby of hittinghim. They ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrumbecause his knickerbocker glory didn't have enough ice cream on top,Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed to finishthe first.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was alltoo good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and darkin there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, allsorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bitsof wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonouscobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found thelargest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its body twicearound Uncle Vernon's car and crushed it into a trash can -- but atthe moment it didn't look in the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staringat the glistening brown coils.
"Make it move," he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tappedon the glass, but the snake didn't budge.
"Do it again," Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glasssmartly with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
"This is boring," Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at thesnake. He wouldn't have been surprised if it had died of boredomitself -- no company except stupid people drumming their fingerson the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse thanhaving a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was AuntPetunia hammering on the door to wake you up; at least he got tovisit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly,it raised its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry's.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone waswatching. They weren't. He looked back at the snake and winked, too.
The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley, thenraised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that saidquite plainly:
"I get that all the time.
"I know," Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn'tsure the snake could hear him. "It must be really annoying."
The snake nodded vigorously.
"Where do you come from, anyway?" Harry asked.
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to theglass. Harry peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
"Was it nice there?"
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again andHarry read on: This specimen was bred in the zoo. "Oh, I see --so you've never been to Brazil?"
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harrymade both of them jump.
"DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON'TBELIEVE WHAT IT'S DOING!"
Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.
"Out of the way, you," he said, punching Harry in theribs. Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. Whatcame next happened so fast no one saw how it happened -- one second,Piers and Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass, the next,they had leapt back with howls of horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor'stank had vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly,slithering out onto the floor. People throughout the reptile housescreamed and started running for the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low,hissing voice said, "Brazil, here I come.... Thanksss, amigo."
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
"But the glass," he kept saying, "where did the glass go?"
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong,sweet tea while he apologized over and over again. Piers andDudley could only gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snakehadn't done anything except snap playfully at their heels as itpassed, but by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon's car,Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, whilePiers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worstof all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say,"Harry was talking to it, weren't you, Harry?"
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the housebefore starting on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. Hemanaged to say, "Go -- cupboard -- stay -- no meals," before hecollapsed into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him alarge brandy.
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had awatch. He didn't know what time it was and he couldn't be sure theDursleys were asleep yet. Until they were, he couldn't risk sneakingto the kitchen for some food.
He'd lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserableyears, as long as he could remember, ever since he'd been a babyand his parents had died in that car crash. He couldn't rememberbeing in the car when his parents had died. Sometimes, when hestrained his memory during long hours in his cupboard, he came upwith a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light and a burn-ing pain on his forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, thoughhe couldn't imagine where all the green light came from. He couldn'tremember his parents at all. His aunt and uncle never spoke aboutthem, and of course he was forbidden to ask questions. There wereno photographs of them in the house.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of someunknown relation coming to take him away, but it had never happened;the Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or maybehoped) that strangers in the street seemed to know him. Very strangestrangers they were, too. A tiny man in a violet top hat had bowedto him once while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley. Afterasking Harry furiously if he knew the man, Aunt Petunia had rushedthem out of the shop without buying anything. A wild-looking oldwoman dressed all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus. Abald man in a very long purple coat had actually shaken his hand inthe street the other day and then walked away without a word. Theweirdest thing about all these people was the way they seemed tovanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley's ganghated that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and brokenglasses, and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley's gang.
CHAPTER THREE
THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry hislongest-ever punishment. By the time he was allowed out of hiscupboard again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley hadalready broken his new video camera, crashed his remote controlairplane, and, first time out on his racing bike, knocked down oldMrs. Figg as she crossed Privet Drive on her crutches.
Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escapingDudley's gang, who visited the house every single day. Piers, Dennis,Malcolm, and Gordon were all big and stupid, but as Dudley wasthe biggest and stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The restof them were all quite happy to join in Dudley's favorite sport:Harry Hunting.
This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of thehouse, wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays,where he could see a tiny ray of hope. When September came he wouldbe going off to secondary school and, for the first time in hislife, he wouldn't be with Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at UncleVernon's old private school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was goingthere too. Harry, on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High,the local public school. Dudley thought this was very funny.
"They stuff people's heads down the toilet the first day atStonewall," he told Harry. "Want to come upstairs and practice?"
"No, thanks," said Harry. "The poor toilet's never had anythingas horrible as your head down it -- it might be sick." Then he ran,before Dudley could work out what he'd said.
One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy hisSmeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs. Figg's. Mrs. Figg wasn't as bad as usual. It turned out she'd broken her leg trippingover one of her cats, and she didn't seem quite as fond of themas before. She let Harry watch television and gave him a bit ofchocolate cake that tasted as though she'd had it for several years.
That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room for thefamily in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings' boys wore maroontailcoats, orange knickerbockers, and flat straw hats calledboaters. They also carried knobbly sticks, used for hitting eachother while the teachers weren't looking. This was supposed to begood training for later life.
As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle Vernonsaid gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life. AuntPetunia burst into tears and said she couldn't believe it was herIckle Dudleykins, he looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn'ttrust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs might alreadyhave cracked from trying not to laugh.
There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next morning whenHarry went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a largemetal tub in the sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full ofwhat looked like dirty rags swimming in gray water.
"What's this?" he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened asthey always did if he dared to ask a question.
"Your new school uniform," she said.
Harry looked in the bowl again.
"Oh," he said, "I didn't realize it had to be so wet."
"DotA be stupid," snapped Aunt Petunia. "I'm dyeing some ofDudley's old things gray for you. It'll look just like everyoneelse's when I've finished."
Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not toargue. He sat down at the table and tried not to think about howhe was going to look on his first day at Stonewall High -- like hewas wearing bits of old elephant skin, probably.
Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled nosesbecause of the smell from Harry's new uniform. Uncle Vernon openedhis newspaper as usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, whichhe carried everywhere, on the table.
They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters onthe doormat.
"Get the mail, Dudley," said Uncle Vernon from behind his paper.
"Make Harry get it."
"Get the mail, Harry."
"Make Dudley get it."
"Poke him with your Smelting stick, Dudley."
Harry dodged the Smelting stick and went to get the mail. Threethings lay on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon's sisterMarge, who was vacationing on the Isle of Wight, a brown envelopethat looked like a bill, and -- a letter for Harry.
Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like agiant elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written tohim. Who would? He had no friends, no other relatives -- he didn'tbelong to the library, so he'd never even got rude notes asking forbooks back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so plainly therecould be no mistake:
Mr. H. Potter
The Cupboard under the Stairs
4 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey
The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment,and the address was written in emerald-green ink. There was no stamp.
Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw apurple wax seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger,and a snake surrounding a large letter H.
"Hurry up, boy!" shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. "What areyou doing, checking for letter bombs?" He chuckled at his own joke.
Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. Hehanded Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down, and slowlybegan to open the yellow envelope.
Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust, andflipped over the postcard.
"Marge's ill," he informed Aunt Petunia. "Ate a funny whelk. --."
"Dad!" said Dudley suddenly. "Dad, Harry's got something!"
Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which waswritten on the same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it wasjerked sharply out of his hand by Uncle Vernon.
"That's mine!" said Harry, trying to snatch it back.
"Who'd be writing to you?" sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking theletter open with one hand and glancing at it. His face went fromred to green faster than a set of traffic lights. And it didn'tstop there. Within seconds it was the grayish white of old porridge.
"P-P-Petunia!" he gasped.
Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernonheld it high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously andread the first line. For a moment it looked as though she mightfaint. She clutched her throat and made a choking noise.
"Vernon! Oh my goodness -- Vernon!"
They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten thatHarry and Dudley were still in the room. Dudley wasn't used tobeing ignored. He gave his father a sharp tap on the head with hisSmelting stick.
"I want to read that letter," he said loudly. want to read it,"said Harry furiously, "as it's mine."
"Get out, both of you," croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing theletter back inside its envelope.
Harry didn't move.
I WANT MY LETTER!" he shouted.
"Let me see it!" demanded Dudley.
"OUT!" roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and Dudley bythe scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall, slamming thekitchen door behind them. Harry and Dudley promptly had a furiousbut silent fight over who would listen at the keyhole; Dudley won,so Harry, his glasses dangling from one ear, lay flat on his stomachto listen at the crack between door and floor.
"Vernon," Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, "lookat the address -- how could they possibly know where he sleeps? Youdon't think they're watching the house?"
"Watching -- spying -- might be following us," muttered UncleVernon wildly.
"But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write back? Tell themwe don't want --"
Harry could see Uncle Vernon's shiny black shoes pacing up anddown the kitchen.
"No," he said finally. "No, we'll ignore it. If they don't getan answer... Yes, that's best... we won't do anything....
"But --"
"I'm not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn't we swear whenwe took him in we'd stamp out that dangerous nonsense?"
That evening when he got back from work, Uncle Vernon didsomething he'd never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.
"Where's my letter?" said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon hadsqueezed through the door. "Who's writing to me?"
"No one. it was addressed to you by mistake," said Uncle Vernonshortly. "I have burned it."
"It was not a mistake," said Harry angrily, "it had my cupboardon it."
"SILENCE!" yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fellfrom the ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced hisface into a smile, which looked quite painful.
"Er -- yes, Harry -- about this cupboard. Your aunt and I havebeen thinking... you're really getting a bit big for it... we thinkit might be nice if you moved into Dudley's second bedroom.
"Why?" said Harry.
"Don't ask questions!" snapped his uncle. "Take this stuffupstairs, now."
The Dursleys' house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernonand Aunt Petunia, one for visitors (usually Uncle Vernon's sister,Marge), one where Dudley slept, and one where Dudley kept all thetoys and things that wouldn't fit into his first bedroom. It onlytook Harry one trip upstairs to move everything he owned from thecupboard to this room. He sat down on the bed and stared aroundhim. Nearly everything in here was broken. The month-old video camerawas lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley had once driven overthe next door neighbor's dog; in the corner was Dudley's first-evertelevision set, which he'd put his foot through when his favoriteprogram had been canceled; there was a large birdcage, which hadonce held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at school for a real airrifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all bent because Dudleyhad sat on it. Other shelves were full of books. They were the onlythings in the room that looked as though they'd never been touched.
From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his mother, Idon't want him in there... I need that room... make him get out...."
Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he'd havegiven anything to be up here. Today he'd rather be back in hiscupboard with that letter than up here without it.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley wasin shock. He'd screamed, whacked his father with his Smelting stick,been sick on purpose, kicked his mother, and thrown his tortoisethrough the greenhouse roof, and he still didn't have his roomback. Harry was thinking about this time yesterday and bitterlywishing he'd opened the letter in the hall. Uncle Vernon and AuntPetunia kept looking at each other darkly.
When the mail arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying tobe nice to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him bangingthings with his Smelting stick all the way down the hall. Then heshouted, "There's another one! 'Mr. H. Potter, The Smallest Bedroom,4 Privet Drive --'"
With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat andran down the hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had towrestle Dudley to the ground to get the letter from him, whichwas made difficult by the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle Vernonaround the neck from behind. After a minute of confused fighting,in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smelting stick, Uncle Vernonstraightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry's letter clutchedin his hand.
"Go to your cupboard -- I mean, your bedroom," he wheezed atHarry. "Dudley -- go -- just go."
Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew he hadmoved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he hadn't receivedhis first letter. Surely that meant they'd try again? And this timehe'd make sure they didn't fail. He had a plan.
The repaired alarm clock rang at six o'clock the nextmorning. Harry turned it off quickly and dressed silently. Hemustn't wake the Dursleys. He stole downstairs without turning onany of the lights.
He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of PrivetDrive and get the letters for number four first. His heart hammeredas he crept across the dark hall toward the front door --
Harry leapt into the air; he'd trodden on something big andsquashy on the doormat -- something alive!
Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realized thatthe big, squashy something had been his uncle's face. Uncle Vernonhad been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping bag,clearly making sure that Harry didn't do exactly what he'd beentrying to do. He shouted at Harry for about half an hour and thentold him to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserablyoff into the kitchen and by the time he got back, the mail hadarrived, right into Uncle Vernon's lap. Harry could see threeletters addressed in green ink.
I want --" he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing the lettersinto pieces before his eyes. Uncle Vernon didnt go to work thatday. He stayed at home and nailed up the mail slot.
"See," he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails,"if they can't deliver them they'll just give up."
"I'm not sure that'll work, Vernon."
"Oh, these people's minds work in strange ways, Petunia, they'renot like you and me," said Uncle Vernon, trying to knock in a nailwith the piece of fruitcake Aunt Petunia had just brought him.
On Friday, no less than twelve letters arrived for Harry. Asthey couldn't go through the mail slot they had been pushed underthe door, slotted through the sides, and a few even forced throughthe small window in the downstairs bathroom.
Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all theletters, he got out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracksaround the front and back doors so no one could go out. He hummed"Tiptoe Through the Tulips" as he worked, and jumped at small noises.
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four lettersto Harry found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden insideeach of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman hadhanded Aunt Petunia through the living room window. While UncleVernon made furious telephone calls to the post office and thedairy trying to find someone to complain to, Aunt Petunia shreddedthe letters in her food processor.
"Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?" Dudley askedHarry in amazement.
On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast tablelooking tired and rather ill, but happy.
"No post on Sundays," he reminded them cheerfully as he spreadmarmalade on his newspapers, "no damn letters today --"
Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he spoke andcaught him sharply on the back of the head. Next moment, thirty orforty letters came pelting out of the fireplace like bullets. TheDursleys ducked, but Harry leapt into the air trying to catch one.
"Out! OUT!"
Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him intothe hall. When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with their armsover their faces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut. They couldhear the letters still streaming into the room, bouncing off thewalls and floor.
"That does it," said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly butpulling great tufts out of his mustache at the same time. I want youall back here in five minutes ready to leave. We're going away. Justpack some clothes. No arguments!"
He looked so dangerous with half his mustache missing thatno one dared argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their waythrough the boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding towardthe highway. Dudley was sniffling in the back seat; his father hadhit him round the head for holding them up while he tried to packhis television, VCR, and computer in his sports bag.
They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn't dare askwhere they were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would take asharp turn and drive in the opposite direction for a while. "Shake'emoff... shake 'em off," he would mutter whenever he did this.
They didn't stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley washowling. He'd never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry,he'd missed five television programs he'd wanted to see, and he'dnever gone so long without blowing up an alien on his computer.
Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy-looking hotel onthe outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room withtwin beds and damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry stayedawake, sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights ofpassing cars and wondering....
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toastfor breakfast the next day. They had just finished when the ownerof the hotel came over to their table.
"'Scuse me, but is one of you Mr. H. Potter? Only I got about an'undred of these at the front desk."
She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:
Mr. H. Potter
Room 17
Railview Hotel
Cokeworth
Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked hishand out of the way. The woman stared.
"I'll take them," said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly andfollowing her from the dining room.
Wouldn't it be better just to go home, dear?" Aunt Petuniasuggested timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn't seem tohear her. Exactly what he was looking for, none of them knew. Hedrove them into the middle of a forest, got out, looked around,shook his head, got back in the car, and off they went again. Thesame thing happened in the middle of a plowed field, halfway acrossa suspension bridge, and at the top of a multilevel parking garage.
"Daddy's gone mad, hasn't he?" Dudley asked Aunt Petunia dullylate that afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast, lockedthem all inside the car, and disappeared.
It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car. Dudley sniveled.
"It's Monday," he told his mother. "The Great Humberto's ontonight. I want to stay somewhere with a television. "
Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday --and you could usually count on Dudley to know the days the week,because of television -- then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry's eleventhbirthday. Of course, his birthdays were never exactly fun -- lastyear, the Dursleys had given him a coat hanger and a pair of UncleVernon's old socks. Still, you weren't eleven every day.
Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carryinga long, thin package and didn't answer Aunt Petunia when she askedwhat he'd bought.
"Found the perfect place!" he said. "Come on! Everyone out!"
It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointingat what looked like a large rock way out at sea. Perched on top ofthe rock was the most miserable little shack you could imagine. Onething was certain, there was no television in there.
"Storm forecast for tonight!" said Uncle Vernon gleefully,clapping his hands together. "And this gentleman's kindly agreedto lend us his boat!"
A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, witha rather wicked grin, at an old rowboat bobbing in the iron-graywater below them.
"I've already got us some rations," said Uncle Vernon, "soall aboard!"
It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept downtheir necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what seemedlike hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon, slipping andsliding, led the way to the broken-down house.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed,the wind whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls, and thefireplace was damp and empty. There were only two rooms.
Uncle Vernon's rations turned out to be a bag of chips each andfour bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty chip bags justsmoked and shriveled up.
"Could do with some of those letters now, eh?" he saidcheerfully.
He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody stooda chance of reaching them here in a storm to deliver mail. Harryprivately agreed, though the thought didn't cheer him up at all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Sprayfrom the high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fiercewind rattled the filthy windows. Aunt Petunia found a few moldyblankets in the second room and made up a bed for Dudley on themoth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon went off to the lumpy bednext door, and Harry was left to find the softest bit of floor hecould and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged blanket.
The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night wenton. Harry couldn't sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to getcomfortable, his stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley's snores weredrowned by the low rolls of thunder that started near midnight. Thelighted dial of Dudley's watch, which was dangling over the edge ofthe sofa on his fat wrist, told Harry he'd be eleven in ten minutes'time. He lay and watched his birthday tick nearer, wondering if theDursleys would remember at all, wondering where the letter writerwas now.
Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He hopedthe roof wasn't going to fall in, although he might be warmer ifit did. Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet Drive wouldbe so full of letters when they got back that he'd be able to stealone somehow.
Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the rocklike that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny crunchingnoise? Was the rock crumbling into the sea?
One minute to go and he'd be eleven. Thirty seconds... twenty... ten... nine -- maybe he'd wake Dudley up, just to annoy him --three... two... one...
BOOM.
The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staringat the door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in.
CHAPTER FOUR
THE KEEPER OF THE KEYS
BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake. "Where's thecannon?" he said stupidly.
There was a crash behind them and Uncle Vernon came skiddinginto the room. He was holding a rifle in his hands -- now they knewwhat had been in the long, thin package he had brought with them.
"Who's there?" he shouted. "I warn you -- I'm armed!"
There was a pause. Then --
SMASH!
The door was hit with such force that it swung clean off itshinges and with a deafening crash landed flat on the floor.
A giant of a man was standing in the doorway. His face wasalmost completely hidden by a long, shaggy mane of hair and a wild,tangled beard, but you could make out his eyes, glinting like blackbeetles under all the hair.
The giant squeezed his way into the hut, stooping so that hishead just brushed the ceiling. He bent down, picked up the door,and fitted it easily back into its frame. The noise of the stormoutside dropped a little. He turned to look at them all.
"Couldn't make us a cup o' tea, could yeh? It's not been aneasy journey..."
He strode over to the sofa where Dudley sat frozen with fear.
"Budge up, yeh great lump," said the stranger.
Dudley squeaked and ran to hide behind his mother, who wascrouching, terrified, behind Uncle Vernon.
"An' here's Harry!" said the giant.
Harry looked up into the fierce, wild, shadowy face and sawthat the beetle eyes were crinkled in a smile.
"Las' time I saw you, you was only a baby," said the giant. "Yehlook a lot like yet dad, but yeh've got yet mom's eyes."
Uncle Vernon made a funny rasping noise.
I demand that you leave at once, sit!" he said. "You are breakingand entering!"
"Ah, shut up, Dursley, yeh great prune," said the giant; hereached over the back of the sofa, jerked the gun out of UncleVernon's hands, bent it into a knot as easily as if it had beenmade of rubber, and threw it into a corner of the room.
Uncle Vernon made another funny noise, like a mouse beingtrodden on.
"Anyway -- Harry," said the giant, turning his back on theDursleys, "a very happy birthday to yeh. Got summat fer yeh here --I mighta sat on it at some point, but it'll taste all right."
From an inside pocket of his black overcoat he pulled a slightlysquashed box. Harry opened it with trembling fingers. Inside was alarge, sticky chocolate cake with Happy Birthday Harry written onit in green icing.
Harry looked up at the giant. He meant to say thank you, but thewords got lost on the way to his mouth, and what he said instead was,"Who are you?"
The giant chuckled.
"True, I haven't introduced meself. Rubeus Hagrid, Keeper ofKeys and Grounds at Hogwarts."
He held out an enormous hand and shook Harry's whole arm.
"What about that tea then, eh?" he said, rubbing his handstogether. "I'd not say no ter summat stronger if yeh've got it,mind."
His eyes fell on the empty grate with the shriveled chip bags init and he snorted. He bent down over the fireplace; they couldn't seewhat he was doing but when he drew back a second later, there wasa roaring fire there. It filled the whole damp hut with flickeringlight and Harry felt the warmth wash over him as though he'd sunkinto a hot bath.
The giant sat back down on the sofa, which sagged under hisweight, and began taking all sorts of things out of the pockets ofhis coat: a copper kettle, a squashy package of sausages, a poker,a teapot, several chipped mugs, and a bottle of some amber liquidthat he took a swig from before starting to make tea. Soon the hutwas full of the sound and smell of sizzling sausage. Nobody said athing while the giant was working, but as he slid the first six fat,juicy, slightly burnt sausages from the poker, Dudley fidgeted alittle. Uncle Vernon said sharply, "Don't touch anything he givesyou, Dudley."
The giant chuckled darkly.
"Yet great puddin' of a son don' need fattenin' anymore, Dursley,don' worry."
He passed the sausages to Harry, who was so hungry he had nevertasted anything so wonderful, but he still couldn't take his eyesoff the giant. Finally, as nobody seemed about to explain anything,he said, "I'm sorry, but I still don't really know who you are."
The giant took a gulp of tea and wiped his mouth with the backof his hand.
"Call me Hagrid," he said, "everyone does. An' like I told yeh,I'm Keeper of Keys at Hogwarts -- yeh'll know all about Hogwarts,o' course.
"Er -- no," said Harry.
Hagrid looked shocked.
"Sorry," Harry said quickly.
"Sony?" barked Hagrid, turning to stare at the Dursleys, whoshrank back into the shadows. "It' s them as should be sorry! I knewyeh weren't gettin' yer letters but I never thought yeh wouldn'teven know abou' Hogwarts, fer cryin' out loud! Did yeh never wonderwhere yet parents learned it all?"
"All what?" asked Harry.
"ALL WHAT?" Hagrid thundered. "Now wait jus' one second!"
He had leapt to his feet. In his anger he seemed to fill thewhole hut. The Dursleys were cowering against the wall.
"Do you mean ter tell me," he growled at the Dursleys, "thatthis boy -- this boy! -- knows nothin' abou' -- about ANYTHING?"
Harry thought this was going a bit far. He had been to school,after all, and his marks weren't bad.
"I know some things," he said. "I can, you know, do math andstuff." But Hagrid simply waved his hand and said, "About our world,I mean. Your world. My world. Yer parents' world."
"What world?"
Hagrid looked as if he was about to explode.
"DURSLEY!" he boomed.
Uncle Vernon, who had gone very pale, whispered something thatsounded like "Mimblewimble." Hagrid stared wildly at Harry.
"But yeh must know about yet mom and dad," he said. "I mean,they're famous. You're famous."
"What? My -- my mom and dad weren't famous, were they?"
"Yeh don' know... yeh don' know..." Hagrid ran his fingersthrough his hair, fixing Harry with a bewildered stare.
"Yeh don' know what yeh are?" he said finally.
Uncle Vernon suddenly found his voice.
"Stop!" he commanded. "Stop right there, sit! I forbid you totell the boy anything!"
A braver man than Vernon Dursley would have quailed under thefurious look Hagrid now gave him; when Hagrid spoke, his everysyllable trembled with rage.
"You never told him? Never told him what was in the letterDumbledore left fer him? I was there! I saw Dumbledore leave it,Dursley! An' you've kept it from him all these years?"
"Kept what from me?" said Harry eagerly.
"STOP! I FORBID YOU!" yelled Uncle Vernon in panic.
Aunt Petunia gave a gasp of horror.
"Ah, go boil yet heads, both of yeh," said Hagrid. "Harry --yet a wizard."
There was silence inside the hut. Only the sea and the whistlingwind could be heard.
"-- a what?" gasped Harry.
"A wizard, o' course," said Hagrid, sitting back down on thesofa, which groaned and sank even lower, "an' a thumpin' good'un,I'd say, once yeh've been trained up a bit. With a mum an' dadlike yours, what else would yeh be? An' I reckon it's abou' timeyeh read yer letter."
Harry stretched out his hand at last to take the yellowishenvelope, addressed in emerald green to Mr. H. Potter, The Floor,Hut-on-the-Rock, The Sea. He pulled out the letter and read:
HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY
Headmaster: ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
(Order of Merlin, First Class, Grand Sorc., Chf. Warlock,Supreme Mugwump, International Confed. of Wizards)
Dear Mr. Potter,
We are pleased to inform you that you have been accepted atHogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Please find encloseda list of all necessary books and equipment.
Term begins on September 1. We await your owl by no later thanJuly 31. Yours sincerely,
Minerva McGonagall,
Deputy Headmistress
Questions exploded inside Harry's head like fireworks and hecouldn't decide which to ask first. After a few minutes he stammered,"What does it mean, they await my owl?"
"Gallopin' Gorgons, that reminds me," said Hagrid, clapping ahand to his forehead with enough force to knock over a cart horse,and from yet another pocket inside his overcoat he pulled an owl --a real, live, rather ruffled-looking owl -- a long quill, and aroll of parchment. With his tongue between his teeth he scribbleda note that Harry could read upside down:
Dear Professor Dumbledore,
Given Harry his letter.
Taking him to buy his things tomorrow.
Weather's horrible. Hope you're Well.
Hagrid
Hagrid rolled up the note, gave it to the owl, which clampedit in its beak, went to the door, and threw the owl out into thestorm. Then he came back and sat down as though this was as normalas talking on the telephone.
Harry realized his mouth was open and closed it quickly.
"Where was I?" said Hagrid, but at that moment, Uncle Vernon,still ashen-faced but looking very angry, moved into the firelight.
"He's not going," he said.
Hagrid grunted.
"I'd like ter see a great Muggle like you stop him," he said.
"A what?" said Harry, interested.
"A Muggle," said Hagrid, "it's what we call nonmagic folk likethern. An' it's your bad luck you grew up in a family o' the biggestMuggles I ever laid eyes on."
"We swore when we took him in we'd put a stop to that rubbish,"said Uncle Vernon, "swore we'd stamp it out of him! Wizard indeed!"
"You knew?" said Harry. "You knew I'm a -- a wizard?"
"Knew!" shrieked Aunt Petunia suddenly. "Knew! Of course weknew! How could you not be, my dratted sister being what she was? Oh,she got a letter just like that and disappeared off to that-thatschool-and came home every vacation with her pockets full of frogspawn, turning teacups into rats. I was the only one who saw herfor what she was -- a freak! But for my mother and father, oh no,it was Lily this and Lily that, they were proud of having a witchin the family!"
She stopped to draw a deep breath and then went ranting on. Itseemed she had been wanting to say all this for years.
"Then she met that Potter at school and they left and got marriedand had you, and of course I knew you'd be just the same, justas strange, just as -- as -- abnormal -- and then, if you please,she went and got herself blown up and we got landed with you!"
Harry had gone very white. As soon as he found his voice he said,"Blown up? You told me they died in a car crash!"
"CAR CRASH!" roared Hagrid, jumping up so angrily that theDursleys scuttled back to their corner. "How could a car crash killLily an' James Potter? It's an outrage! A scandal! Harry Potternot knowin' his own story when every kid in our world knows hisname!" "But why? What happened?" Harry asked urgently.
The anger faded from Hagrid's face. He looked suddenly anxious.
"I never expected this," he said, in a low, worried voice. "Ihad no idea, when Dumbledore told me there might be trouble gettin'hold of yeh, how much yeh didn't know. Ah, Harry, I don' knowif I'm the right person ter tell yeh -- but someone 3 s gotta --yeh can't go off ter Hogwarts not knowin'."
He threw a dirty look at the Dursleys.
"Well, it's best yeh know as much as I can tell yeh -- mind,I can't tell yeh everythin', it's a great myst'ry, parts of it...."
He sat down, stared into the fire for a few seconds, and thensaid, "It begins, I suppose, with -- with a person called -- but it'sincredible yeh don't know his name, everyone in our world knows --"
"Who? "
"Well -- I don' like sayin' the name if I can help it. Noone does."
"Why not?"
"Gulpin' gargoyles, Harry, people are still scared. Blimey,this is difficult. See, there was this wizard who went... bad. Asbad as you could go. Worse. Worse than worse. His name was..."
Hagrid gulped, but no words came out.
"Could you write it down?" Harry suggested.
"Nah -can't spell it. All right -- Voldemort. " Hagridshuddered. "Don' make me say it again. Anyway, this -- this wizard,about twenty years ago now, started lookin' fer followers. Got 'em,too -- some were afraid, some just wanted a bit o' his power, 'causehe was gettin' himself power, all right. Dark days, Harry. Didn'tknow who ter trust, didn't dare get friendly with strange wizards orwitches... terrible things happened. He was takin' over. 'Course,some stood up to him -- an' he killed 'em. Horribly. One o' theonly safe places left was Hogwarts. Reckon Dumbledore's the onlyone You-Know-Who was afraid of. Didn't dare try takin' the school,not jus' then, anyway.
"Now, yer mum an' dad were as good a witch an' wizard as Iever knew. Head boy an' girl at Hogwarts in their day! Supposethe myst'ry is why You-Know-Who never tried to get 'em on his sidebefore... probably knew they were too close ter Dumbledore ter wantanythin' ter do with the Dark Side.
"Maybe he thought he could persuade 'em... maybe he just wanted'em outta the way. All anyone knows is, he turned up in the villagewhere you was all living, on Halloween ten years ago. You was justa year old. He came ter yer house an' -- an' --"
Hagrid suddenly pulled out a very dirty, spotted handkerchiefand blew his nose with a sound like a foghorn.
"Sorry," he said. "But it's that sad -- knew yer mum an' dad,an' nicer people yeh couldn't find -- anyway..."
"You-Know-Who killed 'em. An' then -- an' this is the realmyst'ry of the thing -- he tried to kill you, too. Wanted termake a clean job of it, I suppose, or maybe he just liked killin'by then. But he couldn't do it. Never wondered how you got thatmark on yer forehead? That was no ordinary cut. That's what yeh getwhen a Powerful, evil curse touches yeh -- took care of yer mum an'dad an' yer house, even -- but it didn't work on you, an' that's whyyer famous, Harry. No one ever lived after he decided ter kill 'em,no one except you, an' he'd killed some o' the best witches an'wizards of the age -- the McKinnons, the Bones, the Prewetts --an' you was only a baby, an' you lived."
Something very painful was going on in Harry's mind. As Hagrid'sstory came to a close, he saw again the blinding flash of greenlight, more clearly than he had ever remembered it before -- and heremembered something else, for the first time in his life: a high,cold, cruel laugh.
Hagrid was watching him sadly.
"Took yeh from the ruined house myself, on Dumbledore'sorders. Brought yeh ter this lot..."
"Load of old tosh," said Uncle Vernon. Harry jumped; he hadalmost forgotten that the Dursleys were there. Uncle Vernon certainlyseemed to have got back his courage. He was glaring at Hagrid andhis fists were clenched.
"Now, you listen here, boy," he snarled, "I accept there'ssomething strange about you, probably nothing a good beatingwouldn't have cured -- and as for all this about your parents,well, they were weirdos, no denying it, and the world's better offwithout them in my opinion -- asked for all they got, getting mixedup with these wizarding types -- just what I expected, always knewthey'd come to a sticky end --"
But at that moment, Hagrid leapt from the sofa and drew abattered pink umbrella from inside his coat. Pointing this at UncleVernon like a sword, he said, "I'm warning you, Dursley -I'm warningyou -- one more word... "
In danger of being speared on the end of an umbrella by abearded giant, Uncle Vernon's courage failed again; he flattenedhimself against the wall and fell silent.
"That's better," said Hagrid, breathing heavily and sitting backdown on the sofa, which this time sagged right down to the floor.
Harry, meanwhile, still had questions to ask, hundreds of them.
"But what happened to Vol--, sorry -- I mean, You-Know-Who?"
"Good question, Harry. Disappeared. Vanished. Same night hetried ter kill you. Makes yeh even more famous. That's the biggestmyst'ry, see... he was gettin' more an' more powerful -- why'd he go?
"Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he hadenough human left in him to die. Some say he's still out there,bidin' his time, like, but I don' believe it. People who was on hisside came back ter ours. Some of 'em came outta kinda trances. Don~reckon they could've done if he was comin' back.
"Most of us reckon he's still out there somewhere but lost hispowers. Too weak to carry on. 'Cause somethin' about you finishedhim, Harry. There was somethin' goin' on that night he hadn'tcounted on -- I dunno what it was, no one does -- but somethin'about you stumped him, all right."
Hagrid looked at Harry with warmth and respect blazing inhis eyes, but Harry, instead of feeling pleased and proud, feltquite sure there had been a horrible mistake. A wizard? Him? Howcould he possibly be? He'd spent his life being clouted by Dudley,and bullied by Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon; if he was really awizard, why hadn't they been turned into warty toads every timethey'd tried to lock him in his cupboard? If he'd once defeatedthe greatest sorcerer in the world, how come Dudley had always beenable to kick him around like a football?
"Hagrid," he said quietly, "I think you must have made amistake. I don't think I can be a wizard."
To his surprise, Hagrid chuckled.
"Not a wizard, eh? Never made things happen when you was scaredor angry?"
Harry looked into the fire. Now he came to think aboutit... every odd thing that had ever made his aunt and unclefurious with him had happened when he, Harry, had been upset orangry... chased by Dudley's gang, he had somehow found himself outof their reach... dreading going to school with that ridiculoushaircut, he'd managed to make it grow back... and the very lasttime Dudley had hit him, hadn't he got his revenge, without evenrealizing he was doing it? Hadn't he set a boa constrictor on him?
Harry looked back at Hagrid, smiling, and saw that Hagrid waspositively beaming at him.
"See?" said Hagrid. "Harry Potter, not a wizard -- you wait,you'll be right famous at Hogwarts."
But Uncle Vernon wasn't going to give in without a fight.
"Haven't I told you he's not going?" he hissed. "He's going toStonewall High and he'll be grateful for it. I've read those lettersand he needs all sorts of rubbish -- spell books and wands and --"
"If he wants ter go, a great Muggle like you won't stophim," growled Hagrid. "Stop Lily an' James Potter' s son goin'ter Hogwarts! Yer mad. His name's been down ever since he wasborn. He's off ter the finest school of witchcraft and wizardry inthe world. Seven years there and he won't know himself. He'll bewith youngsters of his own sort, fer a change, an' he'll be underthe greatest headmaster Hogwarts ever had Albus Dumbled--"
"I AM NOT PAYING FOR SOME CRACKPOT OLD FOOL To TEACH HIM MAGICTRICKS!" yelled Uncle Vernon.
But he had finally gone too far. Hagrid seized his umbrella andwhirled it over his head, "NEVER," he thundered, "- INSULT- ALBUS-DUMBLEDORE- IN- FRONT- OF- ME!"
He brought the umbrella swishing down through the air to pointat Dudley -- there was a flash of violet light, a sound likea firecracker, a sharp squeal, and the next second, Dudley wasdancing on the spot with his hands clasped over his fat bottom,howling in pain. When he turned his back on them, Harry saw a curlypig's tail poking through a hole in his trousers.
Uncle Vernon roared. Pulling Aunt Petunia and Dudley into theother room, he cast one last terrified look at Hagrid and slammedthe door behind them.
Hagrid looked down at his umbrella and stroked his beard.
"Shouldn'ta lost me temper," he said ruefully, "but it didn'twork anyway. Meant ter turn him into a pig, but I suppose he wasso much like a pig anyway there wasn't much left ter do."
He cast a sideways look at Harry under his bushy eyebrows.
"Be grateful if yeh didn't mention that ter anyone atHogwarts," he said. "I'm -- er -- not supposed ter do magic,strictly speakin'. I was allowed ter do a bit ter follow yeh an'get yer letters to yeh an' stuff -- one o' the reasons I was sokeen ter take on the job
"Why aren't you supposed to do magic?" asked Harry.
"Oh, well -- I was at Hogwarts meself but I -- er -- gotexpelled, ter tell yeh the truth. In me third year. They snappedme wand in half an' everything. But Dumbledore let me stay on asgamekeeper. Great man, Dumbledore." "Why were you expelled?"
"It's gettin' late and we've got lots ter do tomorrow," saidHagrid loudly. "Gotta get up ter town, get all yer books an' that."
He took off his thick black coat and threw it to Harry.
"You can kip under that," he said. "Don' mind if it wriggles abit, I think I still got a couple o' dormice in one o' the pockets."
CHAPTER FIVE
DIAGON ALLEY
Harry woke early the next morning. Although he could tell itwas daylight, he kept his eyes shut tight.
"It was a dream, he told himself firmly. "I dreamed agiant called Hagrid came to tell me I was going to a school forwizards. When I open my eyes I'll be at home in my cupboard."
There was suddenly a loud tapping noise.
And there's Aunt Petunia knocking on the door, Harry thought,his heart sinking. But he still didn't open his eyes. It had beensuch a good dream.
Tap. Tap. Tap.
"All right," Harry mumbled, "I'm getting up."
He sat up and Hagrid's heavy coat fell off him. The hut was fullof sunlight, the storm was over, Hagrid himself was asleep on thecollapsed sofa, and there was an owl rapping its claw on the window,a newspaper held in its beak.
Harry scrambled to his feet, so happy he felt as though a largeballoon was swelling inside him. He went straight to the windowand jerked it open. The owl swooped in and dropped the newspaperon top of Hagrid, who didn't wake up. The owl then fluttered ontothe floor and began to attack Hagrid's coat.
"Don't do that."
Harry tried to wave the owl out of the way, but it snapped itsbeak fiercely at him and carried on savaging the coat.
"Hagrid!" said Harry loudly. "There's an owl
"Pay him," Hagrid grunted into the sofa.
"What?"
"He wants payin' fer deliverin' the paper. Look in thepockets." Hagrid's coat seemed to be made of nothing but pockets --bunches of keys, slug pellets, balls of string, peppermint humbugs,teabags... finally, Harry pulled out a handful of strange-lookingcoins.
"Give him five Knuts," said Hagrid sleepily.
"Knuts?"
"The little bronze ones."
Harry counted out five little bronze coins, and the owl heldout his leg so Harry could put the money into a small leather pouchtied to it. Then he flew off through the open window.
Hagrid yawned loudly, sat up, and stretched.
"Best be Off, Harry, lots ter do today, gotta get up ter Londonan' buy all yer stuff fer school."
Harry was turning over the wizard coins and looking at them. Hehad just thought of something that made him feel as though thehappy balloon inside him had got a puncture.
"Um -- Hagrid?"
"Mm?" said Hagrid, who was pulling on his huge boots.
"I haven't got any money -- and you heard Uncle Vernon lastnight ... he won't pay for me to go and learn magic."
"Don't worry about that," said Hagrid, standing up and scratchinghis head. "D'yeh think yer parents didn't leave yeh anything?"
"But if their house was destroyed --"
"They didn' keep their gold in the house, boy! Nah, first stopfer us is Gringotts. Wizards' bank. Have a sausage, they're notbad cold -- an' I wouldn' say no teh a bit o' yer birthday cake,neither."
"Wizards have banks?"
"Just the one. Gringotts. Run by goblins."
Harry dropped the bit of sausage he was holding.
"Goblins?"
"Yeah -- so yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it, I'll tell yehthat. Never mess with goblins, Harry. Gringotts is the safest placein the world fer anything yeh want ter keep safe -- 'cept maybeHogwarts. As a matter o' fact, I gotta visit Gringotts anyway. FerDumbledore. Hogwarts business." Hagrid drew himself up proudly. "Heusually gets me ter do important stuff fer him. Fetchin' you gettin'things from Gringotts -- knows he can trust me, see.
"Got everythin'? Come on, then."
Harry followed Hagrid out onto the rock. The sky was quiteclear now and the sea gleamed in the sunlight. The boat Uncle Vernonhad hired was still there, with a lot of water in the bottom afterthe storm.
"How did you get here?" Harry asked, looking around for anotherboat. "Flew," said Hagrid.
"Flew?"
"Yeah -- but we'll go back in this. Not s'pposed ter use magicnow I've got yeh."
They settled down in the boat, Harry still staring at Hagrid,trying to imagine him flying.
"Seems a shame ter row, though," said Hagrid, giving Harryanother of his sideways looks. "If I was ter -- er -- speed thingsup a bit, would yeh mind not mentionin' it at Hogwarts?"
"Of course not," said Harry, eager to see more magic. Hagridpulled out the pink umbrella again, tapped it twice on the side ofthe boat, and they sped off toward land.
"Why would you be mad to try and rob Gringotts?" Harry asked.
"Spells -- enchantments," said Hagrid, unfolding his newspaperas he spoke. "They say there's dragons guardin' the highsecurityvaults. And then yeh gotta find yer way -- Gringotts is hundredsof miles under London, see. Deep under the Underground. Yeh'd dieof hunger tryin' ter get out, even if yeh did manage ter get yerhands on summat."
Harry sat and thought about this while Hagrid read hisnewspaper, the Daily Prophet. Harry had learned from Uncle Vernonthat people liked to be left alone while they did this, but it wasvery difficult, he'd never had so many questions in his life.
"Ministry o' Magic messin' things up as usual," Hagrid muttered,turning the page.
"There's a Ministry of Magic?" Harry asked, before he couldstop himself.
"'Course," said Hagrid. "They wanted Dumbledore fer Minister,0 ' course, but he'd never leave Hogwarts, so old Cornelius Fudgegot the job. Bungler if ever there was one. So he pelts Dumbledorewith owls every morning, askin' fer advice."
"But what does a Ministry of Magic do?"
"Well, their main job is to keep it from the Muggles thatthere's still witches an' wizards up an' down the country."
"Why?"
"Why? Blimey, Harry, everyone'd be wantin' magic solutions totheir problems. Nah, we're best left alone."
At this moment the boat bumped gently into the harborwall. Hagrid folded up his newspaper, and they clambered up thestone steps onto the street.
Passersby stared a lot at Hagrid as they walked through thelittle town to the station. Harry couldn't blame them. Not only wasHagrid twice as tall as anyone else, he kept pointing at perfectlyordinary things like parking meters and saying loudly, "See that,Harry? Things these Muggles dream up, eh?"
"Hagrid," said Harry, panting a bit as he ran to keep up,"did you say there are dragons at Gringotts?"
"Well, so they say," said Hagrid. "Crikey, I'd like a dragon."
"You'd like one?"
"Wanted one ever since I was a kid -- here we go."
They had reached the station. There was a train to London infive minutes' time. Hagrid, who didn't understand "Muggle money," ashe called it, gave the bills to Harry so he could buy their tickets.
People stared more than ever on the train. Hagrid took up twoseats and sat knitting what looked like a canary-yellow circus tent.
"Still got yer letter, Harry?" he asked as he countedstitches. Harry took the parchment envelope out of his pocket.
"Good," said Hagrid. "There's a list there of everythingyeh need."
Harry unfolded a second piece of paper he hadn't noticed thenight before, and read:
HOGWARTS SCHOOL of WITCHCRAFT and WIZARDRY
UNIFORM
First-year students will require:
1. Three sets of plain work robes (black)
2. One plain pointed hat (black) for day wear
3. One pair of protective gloves (dragon hide or similar)
4. One winter cloak (black, silver fastenings)
Please note that all pupils' clothes should carry name tags
COURSE BOOKS
All students should have a copy of each of the following:
The Standard Book of Spells (Grade 1) by Miranda Goshawk
A History of Magic by Bathilda Bagshot
Magical Theory by Adalbert Waffling
A Beginners' Guide to Transfiguration by Emetic Switch
One Thousand Magical Herbs and Fungi by Phyllida Spore
Magical Drafts and Potions by Arsenius Jigger
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them by Newt Scamander
The Dark Forces: A Guide to Self-Protection by Quentin Trimble
OTHER EQUIPMENT
wand cauldron (pewter, standard size 2) set
glass or crystal phials
telescope set
brass scales
Students may also bring an owl OR a cat OR a toad
PARENTS ARE REMINDED THAT FIRST YEARS ARE NOT ALLOWED THEIROWN BROOMSTICKS
"Can we buy all this in London?" Harry wondered aloud.
"If yeh know where to go," said Hagrid.
Harry had never been to London before. Although Hagrid seemedto know where he was going, he was obviously not used to gettingthere in an ordinary way. He got stuck in the ticket barrier on theUnderground, and complained loudly that the seats were too smalland the trains too slow.
"I don't know how the Muggles manage without magic," he saidas they climbed a broken-down escalator that led up to a bustlingroad lined with shops.
Hagrid was so huge that he parted the crowd easily; all Harry hadto do was keep close behind him. They passed book shops and musicstores, hamburger restaurants and cinemas, but nowhere that lookedas if it could sell you a magic wand. This was just an ordinarystreet full of ordinary people. Could there really be piles ofwizard gold buried miles beneath them? Were there really shopsthat sold spell books and broomsticks? Might this not all be somehuge joke that the Dursleys had cooked up? If Harry hadn't knownthat the Dursleys had no sense of humor, he might have thought so;yet somehow, even though everything Hagrid had told him so far wasunbelievable, Harry couldn't help trusting him.
"This is it," said Hagrid, coming to a halt, "the LeakyCauldron. It's a famous place."
It was a tiny, grubby-looking pub. If Hagrid hadn't pointed itout, Harry wouldn't have noticed it was there. The people hurryingby didn't glance at it. Their eyes slid from the big book shop onone side to the record shop on the other as if they couldn't see theLeaky Cauldron at all. In fact, Harry had the most peculiar feelingthat only he and Hagrid could see it. Before he could mention this,Hagrid had steered him inside.
For a famous place, it was very dark and shabby. A few old womenwere sitting in a corner, drinking tiny glasses of sherry. Oneof them was smoking a long pipe. A little man in a top hat wastalking to the old bartender, who was quite bald and looked like atoothless walnut. The low buzz of chatter stopped when they walkedin. Everyone seemed to know Hagrid; they waved and smiled at him,and the bartender reached for a glass, saying, "The usual, Hagrid?"
"Can't, Tom, I'm on Hogwarts business," said Hagrid, clappinghis great hand on Harry's shoulder and making Harry's knees buckle.
"Good Lord," said the bartender, peering at Harry, "is this --can this be --?"
The Leaky Cauldron had suddenly gone completely still and silent.
"Bless my soul," whispered the old bartender, "HarryPotter... what an honor."
He hurried out from behind the bar, rushed toward Harry andseized his hand, tears in his eyes.
"Welcome back, Mr. Potter, welcome back."
Harry didn't know what to say. Everyone was looking at him. Theold woman with the pipe was puffing on it without realizing it hadgone out. Hagrid was beaming.
Then there was a great scraping of chairs and the next moment,Harry found himself shaking hands with everyone in the LeakyCauldron.
"Doris Crockford, Mr. Potter, can't believe I'm meeting youat last."
"So proud, Mr. Potter, I'm just so proud."
"Always wanted to shake your hand -- I'm all of a flutter."
"Delighted, Mr. Potter, just can't tell you, Diggle's the name,Dedalus Diggle."
"I've seen you before!" said Harry, as Dedalus Diggle's tophat fell off in his excitement. "You bowed to me once in a shop."
"He remembers!" cried Dedalus Diggle, looking around ateveryone. "Did you hear that? He remembers me!" Harry shook handsagain and again -- Doris Crockford kept coming back for more.
A pale young man made his way forward, very nervously. One ofhis eyes was twitching.
"Professor Quirrell!" said Hagrid. "Harry, Professor Quirrellwill be one of your teachers at Hogwarts."
"P-P-Potter," stammered Professor Quirrell, grasping Harry'shand, "c-can't t-tell you how p- pleased I am to meet you."
"What sort of magic do you teach, Professor Quirrell?"
"D-Defense Against the D-D-Dark Arts," muttered ProfessorQuirrell, as though he'd rather not think about it. "N-not thatyou n-need it, eh, P-P-Potter?" He laughed nervously. "You'll beg-getting all your equipment, I suppose? I've g-got to p-pick upa new b-book on vampires, m-myself." He looked terrified at thevery thought.
But the others wouldn't let Professor Quirrell keep Harry tohimself. It took almost ten minutes to get away from them all. Atlast, Hagrid managed to make himself heard over the babble.
"Must get on -- lots ter buy. Come on, Harry."
Doris Crockford shook Harry's hand one last time, and Hagridled them through the bar and out into a small, walled courtyard,where there was nothing but a trash can and a few weeds.
Hagrid grinned at Harry.
"Told yeh, didn't I? Told yeh you was famous. Even ProfessorQuirrell was tremblin' ter meet yeh -- mind you, he's usuallytremblin'."
"Is he always that nervous?"
"Oh, yeah. Poor bloke. Brilliant mind. He was fine while he was
studyin' outta books but then he took a year off ter get somefirsthand experience.... They say he met vampires in the BlackForest, and there was a nasty bit o' trouble with a hag -- neverbeen the same since. Scared of the students, scared of his ownsubject now, where's me umbrella?"
Vampires? Hags? Harry's head was swimming. Hagrid, meanwhile,was counting bricks in the wall above the trash can.
"Three up... two across he muttered. "Right, stand back, Harry."
He tapped the wall three times with the point of his umbrella.
The brick he had touched quivered -- it wriggled -- in themiddle, a small hole appeared -- it grew wider and wider -- a secondlater they were facing an archway large enough even for Hagrid, anarchway onto a cobbled street that twisted and turned out of sight.
"Welcome," said Hagrid, "to Diagon Alley."
He grinned at Harry's amazement. They stepped through thearchway. Harry looked quickly over his shoulder and saw the archwayshrink instantly back into solid wall.
The sun shone brightly on a stack of cauldrons outside thenearest shop. Cauldrons -- All Sizes - Copper, Brass, Pewter, Silver-- Self-Stirring -- Collapsible, said a sign hanging over them.
"Yeah, you'll be needin' one," said Hagrid, "but we gotta getyer money first."
Harry wished he had about eight more eyes. He turned his headin every direction as they walked up the street, trying to look ateverything at once: the shops, the things outside them, the peopledoing their shopping. A plump woman outside an Apothecary wasshaking her head as they passed, saying, "Dragon liver, seventeenSickles an ounce, they're mad...."
A low, soft hooting came from a dark shop with a signsaying Eeylops Owl Emporium -- Tawny, Screech, Barn, Brown, andSnowy. Several boys of about Harry's age had their noses pressedagainst a window with broomsticks in it. "Look," Harry heardone of them say, "the new Nimbus Two Thousand -- fastest ever --"There were shops selling robes, shops selling telescopes and strangesilver instruments Harry had never seen before, windows stacked withbarrels of bat spleens and eels' eyes, tottering piles of spellbooks, quills, and rolls of parchment, potion bottles, globes ofthe moon....
"Gringotts," said Hagrid.
They had reached a snowy white building that towered over theother little shops. Standing beside its burnished bronze doors,wearing a uniform of scarlet and gold, was -
"Yeah, that's a goblin," said Hagrid quietly as they walkedup the white stone steps toward him. The goblin was about a headshorter than Harry. He had a swarthy, clever face, a pointed beardand, Harry noticed, very long fingers and feet. He bowed as theywalked inside. Now they were facing a second pair of doors, silverthis time, with words engraved upon them:
Enter, stranger, but take heed
Of what awaits the sin of greed,
For those who take, but do not earn,
Must pay most dearly in their turn.
So if you seek beneath our floors
A treasure that was never yours,
Thief, you have been warned, beware
Of finding more than treasure there.
"Like I said, Yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it," said Hagrid.
A pair of goblins bowed them through the silver doors and theywere in a vast marble hall. About a hundred more goblins were sittingon high stools behind a long counter, scribbling in large ledgers,weighing coins in brass scales, examining precious stones througheyeglasses. There were too many doors to count leading off the hall,and yet more goblins were showing people in and out of these. Hagridand Harry made for the counter.
"Morning," said Hagrid to a free goblin. "We've come ter takesome money outta Mr. Harry Potter's safe."
"You have his key, Sir?"
"Got it here somewhere," said Hagrid, and he started emptyinghis pockets onto the counter, scattering a handful of moldy dogbiscuits over the goblin's book of numbers. The goblin wrinkledhis nose. Harry watched the goblin on their right weighing a pileof rubies as big as glowing coals.
"Got it," said Hagrid at last, holding up a tiny golden key.
The goblin looked at it closely.
"That seems to be in order."
"An' I've also got a letter here from Professor Dumbledore,"said Hagrid importantly, throwing out his chest. "It's about theYouKnow-What in vault seven hundred and thirteen."
The goblin read the letter carefully.
"Very well," he said, handing it back to Hagrid, "I will haveSomeone take you down to both vaults. Griphook!"
Griphook was yet another goblin. Once Hagrid had crammed allthe dog biscuits back inside his pockets, he and Harry followedGriphook toward one of the doors leading off the hall.
"What's the You-Know-What in vault seven hundred andthirteen?" Harry asked.
"Can't tell yeh that," said Hagrid mysteriously. "Verysecret. Hogwarts business. Dumbledore's trusted me. More'n my job'sworth ter tell yeh that."
Griphook held the door open for them. Harry, who had expectedmore marble, was surprised. They were in a narrow stone passagewaylit with flaming torches. It sloped steeply downward and there werelittle railway tracks on the floor. Griphook whistled and a smallcart came hurtling up the tracks toward them. They climbed in --Hagrid with some difficulty -- and were off.
At first they just hurtled through a maze of twistingpassages. Harry tried to remember, left, right, right, left, middlefork, right, left, but it was impossible. The rattling cart seemedto know its own way, because Griphook wasn't steering.
Harry's eyes stung as the cold air rushed past them, but he keptthem wide open. Once, he thought he saw a burst of fire at the endof a passage and twisted around to see if it was a dragon, but toolate - - they plunged even deeper, passing an underground lake wherehuge stalactites and stalagmites grew from the ceiling and floor.
I never know," Harry called to Hagrid over the noise of the cart,"what's the difference between a stalagmite and a stalactite?"
"Stalagmite's got an 'm' in it," said Hagrid. "An' don' ask mequestions just now, I think I'm gonna be sick."
He did look very green, and when the cart stopped at last besidea small door in the passage wall, Hagrid got out and had to leanagainst the wall to stop his knees from trembling.
Griphook unlocked the door. A lot of green smoke came billowingout, and as it cleared, Harry gasped. Inside were mounds of goldcoins. Columns of silver. Heaps of little bronze Knuts.
"All yours," smiled Hagrid.
All Harry's -- it was incredible. The Dursleys couldn'thave known about this or they'd have had it from him faster thanblinking. How often had they complained how much Harry cost themto keep? And all the time there had been a small fortune belongingto him, buried deep under London.
Hagrid helped Harry pile some of it into a bag.
"The gold ones are Galleons," he explained. "Seventeen silverSickles to a Galleon and twenty-nine Knuts to a Sickle, it's easyenough. Right, that should be enough fer a couple o' terms, we'llkeep the rest safe for yeh." He turned to Griphook. "Vault sevenhundred and thirteen now, please, and can we go more slowly?"
"One speed only," said Griphook.
They were going even deeper now and gathering speed. The airbecame colder and colder as they hurtled round tight corners. Theywent rattling over an underground ravine, and Harry leaned overthe side to try to see what was down at the dark bottom, but Hagridgroaned and pulled him back by the scruff of his neck.
Vault seven hundred and thirteen had no keyhole.
"Stand back," said Griphook importantly. He stroked the doorgently with one of his long fingers and it simply melted away.
"If anyone but a Gringotts goblin tried that, they'd be suckedthrough the door and trapped in there," said Griphook.
"How often do you check to see if anyone's inside?" Harry asked.
"About once every ten years," said Griphook with a rathernasty grin.
Something really extraordinary had to be inside this top securityvault, Harry was sure, and he leaned forward eagerly, expecting tosee fabulous jewels at the very least -- but at first he thoughtit was empty. Then he noticed a grubby little package wrapped upin brown paper lying on the floor. Hagrid picked it up and tuckedit deep inside his coat. Harry longed to know what it was, but knewbetter than to ask.
"Come on, back in this infernal cart, and don't talk to me onthe way back, it's best if I keep me mouth shut," said Hagrid.
One wild cart ride later they stood blinking in the sunlightoutside Gringotts. Harry didn't know where to run first now that hehad a bag full of money. He didn't have to know how many Galleonsthere were to a pound to know that he was holding more money thanhe'd had in his whole life -- more money than even Dudley hadever had.
"Might as well get yer uniform," said Hagrid, nodding towardMadam Malkin's Robes for All Occasions. "Listen, Harry, would yehmind if I slipped off fer a pick-me-up in the Leaky Cauldron? Ihate them Gringotts carts." He did still look a bit sick, so Harryentered Madam Malkin's shop alone, feeling nervous.
Madam Malkin was a squat, smiling witch dressed all in mauve.
"Hogwarts, clear?" she said, when Harry started to speak. "Gotthe lot here -- another young man being fitted up just now, infact. "
In the back of the shop, a boy with a pale, pointed face wasstanding on a footstool while a second witch pinned up his long blackrobes. Madam Malkin stood Harry on a stool next to him) slipped along robe over his head, and began to pin it to the right length.
"Hello," said the boy, "Hogwarts, too?"
"Yes," said Harry.
"My father's next door buying my books and mother's up thestreet looking at wands," said the boy. He had a bored, drawlingvoice. "Then I'm going to drag them off to took at racing brooms. Idon't see why first years can't have their own. I think I'll bullyfather into getting me one and I'll smuggle it in somehow."
Harry was strongly reminded of Dudley.
"Have you got your own broom?" the boy went on.
"No," said Harry.
"Play Quidditch at all?"
"No," Harry said again, wondering what on earth Quidditchcould be.
"I do -- Father says it's a crime if I'm not picked to play formy house, and I must say, I agree. Know what house you'll be in yet?"
"No," said Harry, feeling more stupid by the minute.
"Well, no one really knows until they get there, do they, but Iknow I'll be in Slytherin, all our family have been -- imagine beingin Hufflepuff, I think I'd leave, wouldn't you?" "Mmm," said Harry,wishing he could say something a bit more interesting.
"I say, look at that man!" said the boy suddenly, nodding towardthe front window. Hagrid was standing there, grinning at Harry andpointing at two large ice creams to show he couldn't come in.
"That's Hagrid," said Harry, pleased to know something the boydidn't. "He works at Hogwarts."
"Oh," said the boy, "I've heard of him. He's a sort of servant,isn't he?"
"He's the gamekeeper," said Harry. He was liking the boy lessand less every second.
"Yes, exactly. I heard he's a sort of savage -- lives in ahut on the school grounds and every now and then he gets drunk,tries to do magic, and ends up setting fire to his bed."
"I think he's brilliant," said Harry coldly.
"Do you?" said the boy, with a slight sneer. "Why is he withyou? Where are your parents?"
"They're dead," said Harry shortly. He didn't feel much likegoing into the matter with this boy.
"Oh, sorry," said the other,. not sounding sorry at all. "Butthey were our kind, weren't they?"
"They were a witch and wizard, if that's what you mean."
"I really don't think they should let the other sort in, doyou? They're just not the same, they've never been brought up toknow our ways. Some of them have never even heard of Hogwarts untilthey get the letter, imagine. I think they should keep it in theold wizarding families. What's your surname, anyway?"
But before Harry could answer, Madam Malkin said, "That's youdone, my dear," and Harry, not sorry for an excuse to stop talkingto the boy, hopped down from the footstool.
"Well, I'll see you at Hogwarts, I suppose," said the drawlingboy.
Harry was rather quiet as he ate the ice cream Hagrid had boughthim (chocolate and raspberry with chopped nuts).
"What's up?" said Hagrid.
"Nothing," Harry lied. They stopped to buy parchment andquills. Harry cheered up a bit when he found a bottle of ink thatchanged color as you wrote. When they had left the shop, he said,"Hagrid, what's Quidditch?"
"Blimey, Harry, I keep forgettin' how little yeh know -- notknowin' about Quidditch!"
"Don't make me feel worse," said Harry. He told Hagrid aboutthe pate boy in Madam Malkin's.
"--and he said people from Muggle families shouldn't even beallowed in."
"Yer not from a Muggle family. If he'd known who yeh were-- he's grown up knowin' yer name if his parents are wizardin'folk. You saw what everyone in the Leaky Cauldron was like whenthey saw yeh. Anyway, what does he know about it, some o' the bestI ever saw were the only ones with magic in 'em in a long line 0'Muggles -- look at yer mum! Look what she had fer a sister!"
"So what is Quidditch?"
"It's our sport. Wizard sport. It's like -- like soccer in theMuggle world -- everyone follows Quidditch -- played up in the airon broomsticks and there's four balls -- sorta hard ter explainthe rules." "And what are Slytherin and Hufflepuff?"
"School houses. There's four. Everyone says Hufflepuff are alot o' duffers, but --"
"I bet I'm in Hufflepuff" said Harry gloomily.
"Better Hufflepuff than Slytherin," said Hagrid darkly. "There'snot a single witch or wizard who went bad who wasn't inSlytherin. You-Know-Who was one."
"Vol-, sorry - You-Know-Who was at Hogwarts?"
"Years an' years ago," said Hagrid.
They bought Harry's school books in a shop called Flourishand Blotts where the shelves were stacked to the ceiling withbooks as large as paving stones bound in leather; books thesize of postage stamps in covers of silk; books full of peculiarsymbols and a few books with nothing in them at all. Even Dudley,who never read anything, would have been wild to get his hands onsome of these. Hagrid almost had to drag Harry away from Curses andCountercurses (Bewitch Your Friends and Befuddle Your Enemies withthe Latest Revenges: Hair Loss, Jelly-Legs, Tongue- Tying and Much,Much More) by Professor Vindictus Viridian.
"I was trying to find out how to curse Dudley."
"I'm not sayin' that's not a good idea, but yer not ter usemagic in the Muggle world except in very special circumstances,"said Hagrid. "An' anyway, yeh couldn' work any of them curses yet,yeh'll need a lot more study before yeh get ter that level."
Hagrid wouldn't let Harry buy a solid gold cauldron, either("It says pewter on yer list"), but they got a nice set ofscales for weighing potion ingredients and a collapsible brasstelescope. Then they visited the Apothecary, which was fascinatingenough to make up for its horrible smell, a mixture of bad eggsand rotted cabbages. Barrels of slimy stuff stood on the floor;jars of herbs, dried roots, and bright powders lined the walls;bundles of feathers, strings of fangs, and snarled claws hung fromthe ceiling. While Hagrid asked the man behind the counter for asupply of some basic potion ingredients for Harry, Harry himselfexamined silver unicorn horns at twenty-one Galleons each andminuscule, glittery-black beetle eyes (five Knuts a scoop).
Outside the Apothecary, Hagrid checked Harry's list again.
"Just yer wand left - A yeah, an' I still haven't got yeh abirthday present."
Harry felt himself go red.
"You don't have to --"
"I know I don't have to. Tell yeh what, I'll get yer animal. Nota toad, toads went outta fashion years ago, yeh'd be laughed at - an'I don' like cats, they make me sneeze. I'll get yer an owl. All thekids want owls, they're dead useful, carry yer mail an' everythin'."
Twenty minutes later, they left Eeylops Owl Emporium, whichhad been dark and full of rustling and flickering, jewel-brighteyes. Harry now carried a large cage that held a beautiful snowyowl, fast asleep with her head under her wing. He couldn't stopstammering his thanks, sounding just like Professor Quirrell.
"Don' mention it," said Hagrid gruffly. "Don' expect you've hada lotta presents from them Dursleys. Just Ollivanders left now -only place fer wands, Ollivanders, and yeh gotta have the best wand."
A magic wand... this was what Harry had been really lookingforward to.
The last shop was narrow and shabby. Peeling gold letters overthe door read Ollivanders: Makers of Fine Wands since 382 B.C. Asingle wand lay on a faded purple cushion in the dusty window.
A tinkling bell rang somewhere in the depths of the shop as theystepped inside. It was a tiny place, empty except for a single,spindly chair that Hagrid sat on to wait. Harry felt strangely asthough he had entered a very strict library; he swallowed a lotof new questions that had just occurred to him and looked insteadat the thousands of narrow boxes piled neatly right up to theceiling. For some reason, the back of his neck prickled. The verydust and silence in here seemed to tingle with some secret magic.
"Good afternoon," said a soft voice. Harry jumped. Hagrid musthave jumped, too, because there was a loud crunching noise and hegot quickly off the spindly chair.
An old man was standing before them, his wide, pale eyes shininglike moons through the gloom of the shop.
"Hello," said Harry awkwardly.
"Ah yes," said the man. "Yes, yes. I thought I'd be seeingyou soon. Harry Potter." It wasn't a question. "You have yourmother's eyes. It seems only yesterday she was in here herself,buying her first wand. Ten and a quarter inches long, swishy,made of willow. Nice wand for charm work."
Mr. Ollivander moved closer to Harry. Harry wished he wouldblink. Those silvery eyes were a bit creepy.
"Your father, on the other hand, favored a mahoganywand. Eleven inches. Pliable. A little more power and excellent fortransfiguration. Well, I say your father favored it -- it's reallythe wand that chooses the wizard, of course."
Mr. Ollivander had come so close that he and Harry were almostnose to nose. Harry could see himself reflected in those misty eyes.
"And that's where..."
Mr. Ollivander touched the lightning scar on Harry's foreheadwith a long, white finger.
"I'm sorry to say I sold the wand that did it," he saidsoftly. "Thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Powerful wand, verypowerful, and in the wrong hands... well, if I'd known what thatwand was going out into the world to do...."
He shook his head and then, to Harry's relief, spotted Hagrid.
"Rubeus! Rubeus Hagrid! How nice to see you again.... Oak,sixteen inches, rather bendy, wasn't it?"
"It was, sir, yes," said Hagrid.
"Good wand, that one. But I suppose they snapped it in halfwhen you got expelled?" said Mr. Ollivander, suddenly stern.
"Er -- yes, they did, yes," said Hagrid, shuffling hisfeet. "I've still got the pieces, though," he added brightly.
"But you don't use them?" said Mr. Ollivander sharply.
"Oh, no, sit," said Hagrid quickly. Harry noticed he grippedhis pink umbrella very tightly as he spoke.
"Hmmm," said Mr. Ollivander, giving Hagrid a piercinglook. "Well, now -- Mr. Potter. Let me see." He pulled a long tapemeasure with silver markings out of his pocket. "Which is yourwand arm?"
"Er -- well, I'm right-handed," said Harry.
"Hold out your arm. That's it." He measured Harry from shoulderto finger, then wrist to elbow, shoulder to floor, knee to armpitand round his head. As he measured, he said, "Every Ollivanderwand has a core of a powerful magical substance, Mr. Potter. Weuse unicorn hairs, phoenix tail feathers, and the heartstringsof dragons. No two Ollivander wands are the same, just as no twounicorns, dragons, or phoenixes are quite the same. And of course,you will never get such good results with another wizard's wand."
Harry suddenly realized that the tape measure, whichwas measuring between his nostrils, was doing this on itsown. Mr. Ollivander was flitting around the shelves, taking downboxes.
"That will do," he said, and the tape measure crumpled into aheap on the floor. "Right then, Mr. Potter. Try this one. Beechwoodand dragon heartstring. Nine inches. Nice and flexible. just takeit and give it a wave."
Harry took the wand and (feeling foolish) waved it around a bit,but Mr. Ollivander snatched it out of his hand almost at once.
"Maple and phoenix feather. Seven inches. Quite whippy. Try --"
Harry tried -- but he had hardly raised the wand when it, too,was snatched back by Mr. Ollivander.
"No, no -here, ebony and unicorn hair, eight and a half inches,springy. Go on, go on, try it out."
Harry tried. And tried. He had no idea what Mr. Ollivander waswaiting for. The pile of tried wands was mounting higher and higheron the spindly chair, but the more wands Mr. Ollivander pulled fromthe shelves, the happier he seemed to become.
"Tricky customer, eh? Not to worry, we'll find the perfectmatch here somewhere -- I wonder, now - - yes, why not -- unusualcombination -- holly and phoenix feather, eleven inches, niceand supple."
Harry took the wand. He felt a sudden warmth in his fingers. Heraised the wand above his head, brought it swishing down through thedusty air and a stream of red and gold sparks shot from the end likea firework, throwing dancing spots of light on to the walls. Hagridwhooped and clapped and Mr. Ollivander cried, "Oh, bravo! Yes,indeed, oh, very good. Well, well, well... how curious... how verycurious... "
He put Harry's wand back into its box and wrapped it in brownpaper, still muttering, "Curious... curious..
"Sorry," said Harry, "but what's curious?"
Mr. Ollivander fixed Harry with his pale stare.
"I remember every wand I've ever sold, Mr. Potter. Every singlewand. It so happens that the phoenix whose tail feather is in yourwand, gave another feather -- just one other. It is very curiousindeed that you should be destined for this wand when its brotherwhy, its brother gave you that scar."
Harry swallowed.
"Yes, thirteen-and-a-half inches. Yew. Curious indeed how thesethings happen. The wand chooses the wizard, remember.... I thinkwe must expect great things from you, Mr. Potter.... After all, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named did great things -- terrible, yes, but great."
Harry shivered. He wasn't sure he liked Mr. Ollivander toomuch. He paid seven gold Galleons for his wand, and Mr. Ollivanderbowed them from his shop.
The late afternoon sun hung low in the sky as Harry and Hagridmade their way back down Diagon Alley, back through the wall, backthrough the Leaky Cauldron, now empty. Harry didn't speak at allas they walked down the road; he didn't even notice how much peoplewere gawking at them on the Underground, laden as they were with alltheir funny-shaped packages, with the snowy owl asleep in its cage onHarry's lap. Up another escalator, out into Paddington station; Harryonly realized where they were when Hagrid tapped him on the shoulder.
"Got time fer a bite to eat before yer train leaves," he said.
He bought Harry a hamburger and they sat down on plastic seatsto eat them. Harry kept looking around. Everything looked so strange,somehow.
"You all right, Harry? Yer very quiet," said Hagrid.
Harry wasn't sure he could explain. He'd just had the bestbirthday of his life -- and yet -- he chewed his hamburger, tryingto find the words.
"Everyone thinks I'm special," he said at last. "All those peoplein the Leaky Cauldron, Professor Quirrell, Mr. Ollivander... but Idon't know anything about magic at all. How can they expect greatthings? I'm famous and I can't even remember what I'm famous for. Idon't know what happened when Vol-, sorry -- I mean, the night myparents died."
Hagrid leaned across the table. Behind the wild beard andeyebrows he wore a very kind smile.
"Don' you worry, Harry. You'll learn fast enough. Everyonestarts at the beginning at Hogwarts, you'll be just fine. justbe yerself. I know it's hard. Yeh've been singled out, an' that'salways hard. But yeh'll have a great time at Hogwarts -- I did --still do, 'smatter of fact."
Hagrid helped Harry on to the train that would take him backto the Dursleys, then handed him an envelope.
"Yer ticket fer Hogwarts, " he said. "First o' September --King's Cross -- it's all on yer ticket. Any problems with theDursleys, send me a letter with yer owl, she'll know where to findme.... See yeh soon, Harry."
The train pulled out of the station. Harry wanted to watchHagrid until he was out of sight; he rose in his seat and pressedhis nose against the window, but he blinked and Hagrid had gone.
CHAPTER SIX
THE JOURNEY FROM PLATFORM NINE AND THREE-QUARTERS
Harry's last month with the Dursleys wasn't fun. True, Dudley wasnow so scared of Harry he wouldn't stay in the same room, while AuntPetunia and Uncle Vernon didn't shut Harry in his cupboard, forcehim to do anything, or shout at him -- in fact, they didn't speak tohim at all. Half terrified, half furious, they acted as though anychair with Harry in it were empty. Although this was an improvementin many ways, it did become a bit depressing after a while.
Harry kept to his room, with his new owl for company. He haddecided to call her Hedwig, a name he had found in A History ofMagic. His school books were very interesting. He lay on his bedreading late into the night, Hedwig swooping in and out of theopen window as she pleased. It was lucky that Aunt Petunia didn'tcome in to vacuum anymore, because Hedwig kept bringing back deadmice. Every night before he went to sleep, Harry ticked off anotherday on the piece of paper he had pinned to the wall, counting downto September the first.
On the last day of August he thought he'd better speak to hisaunt and uncle about getting to King's Cross station the next day,so he went down to the living room where they were watching a quizshow on television. He cleared his throat to let them know he wasthere, and Dudley screamed and ran from the room.
"Er -- Uncle Vernon?"
Uncle Vernon grunted to show he was listening.
"Er -- I need to be at King's Cross tomorrow to -- to go toHogwarts."
Uncle Vernon grunted again.
"Would it be all right if you gave me a lift?"
Grunt. Harry supposed that meant yes.
"Thank you."
He was about to go back upstairs when Uncle Vernon actuallyspoke.
"Funny way to get to a wizards' school, the train. Magic carpetsall got punctures, have they?"
Harry didn't say anything.
"Where is this school, anyway?"
"I don't know," said Harry, realizing this for the first time. Hepulled the ticket Hagrid had given him out of his pocket.
"I just take the train from platform nine and three-quartersat eleven o'clock," he read.
His aunt and uncle stared.
"Platform what?"
"Nine and three-quarters."
"Don't talk rubbish," said Uncle Vernon. "There is no platformnine and three-quarters."
"It's on my ticket."
"Barking," said Uncle Vernon, "howling mad, the lot ofthem. You'll see. You just wait. All right, we'll take you toKing's Cross. We're going up to London tomorrow anyway, or Iwouldn't bother."
"Why are you going to London?" Harry asked, trying to keepthings friendly.
"Taking Dudley to the hospital," growled Uncle Vernon. "Got tohave that ruddy tail removed before he goes to Smeltings."
Harry woke at five o'clock the next morning and was too excitedand nervous to go back to sleep. He got up and pulled on his jeansbecause he didn't want to walk into the station in his wizard'srobes -- he'd change on the train. He checked his Hogwarts list yetagain to make sure he had everything he needed, saw that Hedwig wasshut safely in her cage, and then paced the room, waiting for theDursleys to get up. Two hours later, Harry's huge, heavy trunk hadbeen loaded into the Dursleys' car, Aunt Petunia had talked Dudleyinto sitting next to Harry, and they had set off.
They reached King's Cross at half past ten. Uncle Vernondumped Harry's trunk onto a cart and wheeled it into the stationfor him. Harry thought this was strangely kind until Uncle Vernonstopped dead, facing the platforms with a nasty grin on his face.
"Well, there you are, boy. Platform nine -- platform ten. Yourplatform should be somewhere in the middle, but they don't seem tohave built it yet, do they?"
He was quite right, of course. There was a big plastic numbernine over one platform and a big plastic number ten over the onenext to it, and in the middle, nothing at all.
"Have a good term," said Uncle Vernon with an even nastiersmile. He left without another word. Harry turned and saw theDursleys drive away. All three of them were laughing. Harry's mouthwent rather dry. What on earth was he going to do? He was startingto attract a lot of funny looks, because of Hedwig. He'd have toask someone.
He stopped a passing guard, but didn't dare mention platformnine and three-quarters. The guard had never heard of Hogwarts andwhen Harry couldn't even tell him what part of the country it wasin, he started to get annoyed, as though Harry was being stupid onpurpose. Getting desperate, Harry asked for the train that left ateleven o'clock, but the guard said there wasn't one. In the endthe guard strode away, muttering about time wasters. Harry wasnow trying hard not to panic. According to the large clock overthe arrivals board, he had ten minutes left to get on the train toHogwarts and he had no idea how to do it; he was stranded in themiddle of a station with a trunk he could hardly lift, a pocketfull of wizard money, and a large owl.
Hagrid must have forgotten to tell him something you had to do,like tapping the third brick on the left to get into Diagon Alley. Hewondered if he should get out his wand and start tapping the ticketinspector's stand between platforms nine and ten.
At that moment a group of people passed just behind him and hecaught a few words of what they were saying.
"-- packed with Muggles, of course --"
Harry swung round. The speaker was a plump woman who was talkingto four boys, all with flaming red hair. Each of them was pushinga trunk like Harry's in front of him -- and they had an owl.
Heart hammering, Harry pushed his cart after them. They stoppedand so did he, just near enough to hear what they were saying.
"Now, what's the platform number?" said the boys' mother.
"Nine and three-quarters!" piped a small girl, also red-headed,who was holding her hand, "Mom, can't I go... "
"You're not old enough, Ginny, now be quiet. All right, Percy,you go first."
What looked like the oldest boy marched toward platforms nineand ten. Harry watched, careful not to blink in case he missed it-- but just as the boy reached the dividing barrier between thetwo platforms, a large crowd of tourists came swarming in frontof him and by the time the last backpack had cleared away, the boyhad vanished.
"Fred, you next," the plump woman said.
"I'm not Fred, I'm George," said the boy. "Honestly, woman,you call yourself our mother? CarA you tell I'm George?"
"Sorry, George, dear."
"Only joking, I am Fred," said the boy, and off he went. Histwin called after him to hurry up, and he must have done so,because a second later, he had gone -- but how had he done it?
Now the third brother was walking briskly toward the barrierhe was almost there -- and then, quite suddenly, he wasn't anywhere.
There was nothing else for it.
"Excuse me," Harry said to the plump woman.
"Hello, dear," she said. "First time at Hogwarts? Ron's new,too."
She pointed at the last and youngest of her sons. He was tall,thin, and gangling, with freckles, big hands and feet, and along nose.
"Yes," said Harry. "The thing is -- the thing is, I don't knowhow to --"
"How to get onto the platform?" she said kindly, and Harrynodded.
"Not to worry," she said. "All you have to do is walk straightat the barrier between platforms nine and ten. Don't stop and don'tbe scared you'll crash into it, that's very important. Best do itat a bit of a run if you're nervous. Go on, go now before Ron."
"Er -- okay," said Harry.
He pushed his trolley around and stared at the barrier. Itlooked very solid.
He started to walk toward it. People jostled him on their wayto platforms nine and ten. Harry walked more quickly. He was goingto smash right into that barrier and then he'd be in trouble --leaning forward on his cart, he broke into a heavy run -- thebarrier was coming nearer and nearer -- he wouldn't be able to stop-- the cart was out of control -- he was a foot away -- he closedhis eyes ready for the crash --
It didn't come... he kept on running... he opened his eyes. Ascarlet steam engine was waiting next to a platform packed withpeople. A sign overhead said Hogwarts Express, eleven O'clock. Harrylooked behind him and saw a wrought-iron archway where the barrierhad been, with the words Platform Nine and Three-Quarters on it,He had done it.
Smoke from the engine drifted over the heads of the chatteringcrowd, while cats of every color wound here and there between theirlegs. Owls hooted to one another in a disgruntled sort of way overthe babble and the scraping of heavy trunks.
The first few carriages were already packed with students,some hanging out of the window to talk to their families, somefighting over seats. Harry pushed his cart off down the platform insearch of an empty seat. He passed a round-faced boy who was saying,"Gran, I've lost my toad again."
"Oh, Neville," he heard the old woman sigh.
A boy with dreadlocks was surrounded by a small crowd.
"Give us a look, Lee, go on."
The boy lifted the lid of a box in his arms, and the peoplearound him shrieked and yelled as something inside poked out a long,hairy leg.
Harry pressed on through the crowd until he found an emptycompartment near the end of the train. He put Hedwig inside firstand then started to shove and heave his trunk toward the traindoor. He tried to lift it up the steps but could hardly raise oneend and twice he dropped it painfully on his foot.
"Want a hand?" It was one of the red-haired twins he'd followedthrough the barrier.
"Yes, please," Harry panted.
"Oy, Fred! C'mere and help!"
With the twins' help, Harry's trunk was at last tucked away ina corner of the compartment.
"Thanks," said Harry, pushing his sweaty hair out of his eyes.
"What's that?" said one of the twins suddenly, pointing atHarry's lightning scar.
"Blimey," said the other twin. "Are you
"He is," said the first twin. "Aren't you?" he added to Harry.
"What?" said Harry.
"Harry Potter, "chorused the twins.
"Oh, him," said Harry. "I mean, yes, I am."
The two boys gawked at him, and Harry felt himself turningred. Then, to his relief, a voice came floating in through thetrain's open door.
"Fred? George? Are you there?"
"Coming, Mom."
With a last look at Harry, the twins hopped off the train.
Harry sat down next to the window where, half hidden, he couldwatch the red-haired family on the platform and hear what they weresaying. Their mother had just taken out her handkerchief.
"Ron, you've got something on your nose."
The youngest boy tried to jerk out of the way, but she grabbedhim and began rubbing the end of his nose.
"Mom -- geroff" He wriggled free.
"Aaah, has ickle Ronnie got somefink on his nosie?" said oneof the twins.
"Shut up," said Ron.
"Where's Percy?" said their mother.
"He's coming now."
The oldest boy came striding into sight. He had already changedinto his billowing black Hogwarts robes, and Harry noticed a shinysilver badge on his chest with the letter P on it.
"Can't stay long, Mother," he said. "I'm up front, the prefectshave got two compartments to themselves --"
"Oh, are you a prefect, Percy?" said one of the twins, withan air of great surprise. "You should have said something, we hadno idea."
"Hang on, I think I remember him saying something about it,"said the other twin. "Once --"
"Or twice --"
"A minute --"
"All summer --"
"Oh, shut up," said Percy the Prefect.
"How come Percy gets new robes, anyway?" said one of the twins.
"Because he's a prefect," said their mother fondly. "All right,dear, well, have a good term -- send me an owl when you get there."
She kissed Percy on the cheek and he left. Then she turned tothe twins.
"Now, you two -- this year, you behave yourselves. If I getone more owl telling me you've -- you've blown up a toilet or --"
"Blown up a toilet? We've never blown up a toilet."
"Great idea though, thanks, Mom."
"It's not funny. And look after Ron."
"Don't worry, ickle Ronniekins is safe with us."
"Shut up," said Ron again. He was almost as tall as the twinsalready and his nose was still pink where his mother had rubbed it.
"Hey, Mom, guess what? Guess who we just met on the train?"
Harry leaned back quickly so they couldn't see him looking.
"You know that black-haired boy who was near us in thestation? Know who he is?"
"Who?"
"Harry Potter!"
Harry heard the little girl's voice.
"Oh, Mom, can I go on the train and see him, Mom, eh please...."
"You've already seen him, Ginny, and the poor boy isn't somethingyou goggle at in a zoo. Is he really, Fred? How do you know?"
"Asked him. Saw his scar. It's really there - like lightning."
"Poor dear - no wonder he was alone, I wondered. He was everso polite when he asked how to get onto the platform."
"Never mind that, do you think he remembers what You-Know-Wholooks like?"
Their mother suddenly became very stern.
"I forbid you to ask him, Fred. No, don't you dare. As thoughhe needs reminding of that on his first day at school."
"All right, keep your hair on."
A whistle sounded.
"Hurry up!" their mother said, and the three boys clamberedonto the train. They leaned out of the window for her to kiss themgood-bye, and their younger sister began to cry.
"Don't, Ginny, we'll send you loads of owls."
"We'll send you a Hogwarts toilet seat."
"George!"
"Only joking, Mom."
The train began to move. Harry saw the boys' mother waving andtheir sister, half laughing, half crying, running to keep up with thetrain until it gathered too much speed, then she fell back and waved.
Harry watched the girl and her mother disappear as the trainrounded the corner. Houses flashed past the window. Harry felt agreat leap of excitement. He didn't know what he was going to butit had to be better than what he was leaving behind.
The door of the compartment slid open and the youngest redheadedboy came in.
"Anyone sitting there?" he asked, pointing at the seat oppositeHarry. "Everywhere else is full."
Harry shook his head and the boy sat down. He glanced at Harryand then looked quickly out of the window, pretending he hadn'tlooked. Harry saw he still had a black mark on his nose.
"Hey, Ron."
The twins were back.
"Listen, we're going down the middle of the train -- Lee Jordan'sgot a giant tarantula down there."
"Right," mumbled Ron.
"Harry," said the other twin, "did we introduce ourselves? Fredand George Weasley. And this is Ron, our brother. See you later,then.
"Bye," said Harry and Ron. The twins slid the compartment doorshut behind them.
"Are you really Harry Potter?" Ron blurted out.
Harry nodded.
"Oh -well, I thought it might be one of Fred and George's jokes,"said Ron. "And have you really got -- you know..."
He pointed at Harry's forehead.
Harry pulled back his bangs to show the lightning scar. Ronstared.
"So that's where You-Know-Who
"Yes," said Harry, "but I can't remember it."
"Nothing?" said Ron eagerly.
"Well -- I remember a lot of green light, but nothing else."
"Wow," said Ron. He sat and stared at Harry for a few moments,then, as though he had suddenly realized what he was doing, helooked quickly out of the window again.
"Are all your family wizards?" asked Harry, who found Ron justas interesting as Ron found him.
"Er -- Yes, I think so," said Ron. "I think Mom's got a secondcousin who's an accountant, but we never talk about him."
"So you must know loads of magic already."
The Weasleys were clearly one of those old wizarding familiesthe pale boy in Diagon Alley had talked about.
"I heard you went to live with Muggles," said Ron. "What arethey like?"
"Horrible -well, not all of them. My aunt and uncle and cousinare, though. Wish I'd had three wizard brothers."
"Five," said Ron. For some reason, he was looking gloomy. "I'mthe sixth in our family to go to Hogwarts. You could say I've gota lot to live up to. Bill and Charlie have already left -- Billwas head boy and Charlie was captain of Quidditch. Now Percy'sa prefect. Fred and George mess around a lot, but they still getreally good marks and everyone thinks they're really funny. Everyoneexpects me to do as well as the others, but if I do, it's no bigdeal, because they did it first. You never get anything new, either,with five brothers. I've got Bill's old robes, Charlie's old wand,and Percy's old rat."
Ron reached inside his jacket and pulled out a fat gray rat,which was asleep.
"His name's Scabbers and he's useless, he hardly ever wakesup. Percy got an owl from my dad for being made a prefect, but theycouldn't aff -- I mean, I got Scabbers instead."
Ron's ears went pink. He seemed to think he'd said too much,because he went back to staring out of the window.
Harry didn't think there was anything wrong with not beingable to afford an owl. After all, he'd never had any money in hislife until a month ago, and he told Ron so, all about having to wearDudley's old clothes and never getting proper birthday presents. Thisseemed to cheer Ron up.
"... and until Hagrid told me, I didn't know anything about being a wizard or about my parents or Voldemort"
Ron gasped.
"What?" said Harry.
"You said You-Know-Who's name!" said Ron, sounding both shockedand impressed. "I'd have thought you, of all people --"
"I'm not trying to be brave or anything, saying the name,"said Harry, I just never knew you shouldn't. See what I mean? I'vegot loads to learn.... I bet," he added, voicing for the first timesomething that had been worrying him a lot lately, "I bet I'm theworst in the class."
"You won't be. There's loads of people who come from Mugglefamilies and they learn quick enough."
While they had been talking, the train had carried them outof London. Now they were speeding past fields full of cows andsheep. They were quiet for a time, watching the fields and lanesflick past.
Around half past twelve there was a great clattering outsidein the corridor and a smiling, dimpled woman slid back their doorand said, "Anything off the cart, dears?"
Harry, who hadn't had any breakfast, leapt to his feet,but Ron's ears went pink again and he muttered that he'd broughtsandwiches. Harry went out into the corridor.
He had never had any money for candy with the Dursleys, andnow that he had pockets rattling with gold and silver he was readyto buy as many Mars Bars as he could carry -- but the woman didn'thave Mars Bars. What she did have were Bettie Bott's Every FlavorBeans, Drooble's Best Blowing Gum, Chocolate Frogs. Pumpkin Pasties,Cauldron Cakes, Licorice Wands, and a number of other strange thingsHarry had never seen in his life. Not wanting to miss anything,he got some of everything and paid the woman eleven silver Sicklesand seven bronze Knuts.
Ron stared as Harry brought it all back in to the compartmentand tipped it onto an empty seat.
"Hungry, are you?"
"Starving," said Harry, taking a large bite out of a pumpkinpasty.
Ron had taken out a lumpy package and unwrapped it. Therewere four sandwiches inside. He pulled one of them apart and said,"She always forgets I don't like corned beef."
"Swap you for one of these," said Harry, holding up a pasty. "Goon --"
"You don't want this, it's all dry," said Ron. "She hasn't gotmuch time," he added quickly, "you know, with five of us."
"Go on, have a pasty," said Harry, who had never had anythingto share before or, indeed, anyone to share it with. It was anice feeling, sitting there with Ron, eating their way through allHarry's pasties, cakes, and candies (the sandwiches lay forgotten).
"What are these?" Harry asked Ron, holding up a pack of ChocolateFrogs. "They're not really frogs, are they?" He was starting tofeel that nothing would surprise him.
"No," said Ron. "But see what the card is. I'm missing Agrippa."
"What?"
"Oh, of course, you wouldn't know -- Chocolate Frogs have cards,inside them, you know, to collect -- famous witches and wizards. I'vegot about five hundred, but I haven't got Agrippa or Ptolemy."
Harry unwrapped his Chocolate Frog and picked up the card. Itshowed a man's face. He wore half- moon glasses, had a long, crookednose, and flowing silver hair, beard, and mustache. Underneath thepicture was the name Albus Dumbledore.
"So this is Dumbledore!" said Harry.
"Don't tell me you'd never heard of Dumbledore!" said Ron. "CanI have a frog? I might get Agrippa -- thanks
Harry turned over his card and read:
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE
CURRENTLY HEADMASTER OF HOGWARTS
Considered by many the greatest wizard of modern times,Dumbledore is particularly famous for his defeat of the darkwizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discovery of the twelve uses ofdragon's blood, and his work on alchemy with his partner, NicolasFlamel. Professor Dumbledore enjoys chamber music and tenpin bowling.
Harry turned the card back over and saw, to his astonishment,that Dumbledore's face had disappeared.
"He's gone!"
"Well, you can't expect him to hang around all day," saidRon. "He'll be back. No, I've got Morgana again and I've got aboutsix of her... do you want it? You can start collecting."
Ron's eyes strayed to the pile of Chocolate Frogs waiting tobe unwrapped.
"Help yourself," said Harry. "But in, you know, the Muggle world,people just stay put in photos."
"Do they? What, they don't move at all?" Ron soundedamazed. "weird!"
Harry stared as Dumbledore sidled back into the picture on hiscard and gave him a small smile. Ron was more interested in eatingthe frogs than looking at the Famous Witches and Wizards cards,but Harry couldn't keep his eyes off them. Soon he had not onlyDumbledore and Morgana, but Hengist of Woodcroft, Alberic Grunnion,Circe, Paracelsus, and Merlin. He finally tore his eyes away fromthe druidess Cliodna, who was scratching her nose, to open a bagof Bertie Bott's Every Flavor Beans.
"You want to be careful with those," Ron warned Harry. "Whenthey say every flavor, they mean every flavor -- you know, youget all the ordinary ones like chocolate and peppermint and mar-malade, but then you can get spinach and liver and tripe. Georgereckons he had a booger- flavored one once."
Ron picked up a green bean, looked at it carefully, and bitinto a corner.
"Bleaaargh -- see? Sprouts."
They had a good time eating the Every Flavor Beans. Harrygot toast, coconut, baked bean, strawberry, curry, grass, coffee,sardine, and was even brave enough to nibble the end off a funnygray one Ron wouldn't touch, which turned out to be pepper.
The countryside now flying past the window was becomingwilder. The neat fields had gone. Now there were woods, twistingrivers, and dark green hills.
There was a knock on the door of their compartment and theround-faced boy Harry had passed on platform nine and threequarterscame in. He looked tearful.
"Sorry," he said, "but have you seen a toad at all?"
When they shook their heads, he wailed, "I've lost him! Hekeeps getting away from me!"
"He'll turn up," said Harry.
"Yes," said the boy miserably. "Well, if you see him..."
He left.
"Don't know why he's so bothered," said Ron. "If I'd brought atoad I'd lose it as quick as I could. Mind you, I brought Scabbers,so I can't talk."
The rat was still snoozing on Ron's lap.
"He might have died and you wouldn't know the difference," saidRon in disgust. "I tried to turn him yellow yesterday to make himmore interesting, but the spell didn't work. I'll show you, look..."
He rummaged around in his trunk and pulled out a verybattered-looking wand. It was chipped in places and something whitewas glinting at the end.
"Unicorn hair's nearly poking out. Anyway
He had just raised his 'wand when the compartment door slidopen again. The toadless boy was back, but this time he had a girlwith him. She was already wearing her new Hogwarts robes.
"Has anyone seen a toad? Neville's lost one," she said. She hada bossy sort of voice, lots of bushy brown hair, and rather largefront teeth.
"We've already told him we haven't seen it," said Ron, but thegirl wasn't listening, she was looking at the wand in his hand.
"Oh, are you doing magic? Let's see it, then."
She sat down. Ron looked taken aback.
"Er -- all right."
He cleared his throat.
"Sunshine, daisies, butter mellow, Turn this stupid, fat ratyellow."
He waved his wand, but nothing happened. Scabbers stayed grayand fast asleep.
"Are you sure that's a real spell?" said the girl. "Well,it's not very good, is it? I've tried a few simple spells justfor practice and it's all worked for me. Nobody in my family'smagic at all, it was ever such a surprise when I got my letter,but I was ever so pleased, of course, I mean, it's the very bestschool of witchcraft there is, I've heard -- I've learned all ourcourse books by heart, of course, I just hope it will be enough --I'm Hermione Granger, by the way, who are you.
She said all this very fast.
Harry looked at Ron, and was relieved to see by his stunnedface that he hadn't learned all the course books by heart either.
"I'm Ron Weasley," Ron muttered.
"Harry Potter," said Harry.
"Are you really?" said Hermione. "I know all about you, of course-- I got a few extra books. for background reading, and you're inModern Magical History and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts andGreat Wizarding Events of the Twentieth Century.
"Am I?" said Harry, feeling dazed.
"Goodness, didn't you know, I'd have found out everything Icould if it was me," said Hermione. "Do either of you know what houseyou'll be in? I've been asking around, and I hope I'm in Gryffindor,it sounds by far the best; I hear Dumbledore himself was in it, butI suppose Ravenclaw wouldn't be too bad.... Anyway, we'd better goand look for Neville's toad. You two had better change, you know,I expect we'll be there soon."
And she left, taking the toadless boy with her.
"Whatever house I'm in, I hope she's not in it," said Ron. Hethrew his wand back into his trunk. "Stupid spell -- George gaveit to me, bet he knew it was a dud."
"What house are your brothers in?" asked Harry.
"Gryffindor," said Ron. Gloom seemed to be settling on himagain. "Mom and Dad were in it, too. I don't know what they'll sayif I'm not. I don't suppose Ravenclaw would be too bad, but imagineif they put me in Slytherin."
"That's the house Vol-, I mean, You-Know-Who was in?"
"Yeah," said Ron. He flopped back into his seat, lookingdepressed.
"You know, I think the ends of Scabbers' whiskers are a bitlighter," said Harry, trying to take Ron's mind off houses. "Sowhat do your oldest brothers do now that they've left, anyway?"
Harry was wondering what a wizard did once he'd finished school.
"Charlie's in Romania studying dragons, and Bill's in Africadoing something for Gringotts," said Ron. "Did you hear about
Gringotts? It's been all over the Daily Prophet, but I don'tsuppose you get that with the Muggles -- someone tried to rob ahigh security vault."
Harry stared.
"Really? What happened to them?"
"Nothing, that's why it's such big news. They haven't beencaught. My dad says it must've been a powerful Dark wizard to getround Gringotts, but they don't think they took anything, that'swhat's odd. 'Course, everyone gets scared when something like thishappens in case You-Know-Who's behind it."
Harry turned this news over in his mind. He was starting toget a prickle of fear every time You- Know-Who was mentioned. Hesupposed this was all part of entering the magical world, but ithad been a lot more comfortable saying "Voldemort" without worrying.
"What's your Quidditch team?" Ron asked.
"Er -- I don't know any," Harry confessed.
"What!" Ron looked dumbfounded. "Oh, you wait, it's the best gamein the world --" And he was off, explaining all about the four ballsand the positions of the seven players, describing famous games he'dbeen to with his brothers and the broomstick he'd like to get if hehad the money. He was just taking Harry through the finer pointsof the game when the compartment door slid open yet again, but itwasn't Neville the toadless boy, or Hermione Granger this time.
Three boys entered, and Harry recognized the middle one at once:it was the pale boy from Madam Malkin's robe shop. He was looking atHarry with a lot more interest than he'd shown back in Diagon Alley.
"Is it true?" he said. "They're saying all down the train thatHarry Potter's in this compartment. So it's you, is it?"
"Yes," said Harry. He was looking at the other boys. Both ofthem were thickset and looked extremely mean. Standing on eitherside of the pale boy, they looked like bodyguards.
"Oh, this is Crabbe and this is Goyle," said the pale boycarelessly, noticing where Harry was looking. "And my name's Malfoy,Draco Malfoy."
Ron gave a slight cough, which might have been hiding asnigget. Draco Malfoy looked at him.
"Think my name's funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. Myfather told me all the Weasleys have red hair, freckles, and morechildren than they can afford."
He turned back to Harry. "You'll soon find out some wizardingfamilies are much better than others, Potter. You don't want to gomaking friends with the wrong sort. I can help you there."
He held out his hand to shake Harry's, but Harry didn't take it.
"I think I can tell who the wrong sort are for myself, thanks,"he said coolly.
Draco Malfoy didn't go red, but a pink tinge appeared in hispale cheeks.
"I'd be careful if I were you, Potter," he said slowly. "Unlessyou're a bit politer you'll go the same way as your parents. Theydidn't know what was good for them, either. You hang around withriffraff like the Weasleys and that Hagrid, and it'll rub offon you."
Both Harry and Ron stood up.
"Say that again," Ron said, his face as red as his hair.
"Oh, you're going to fight us, are you?" Malfoy sneered.
"Unless you get out now," said Harry, more bravely than he felt,because Crabbe and Goyle were a lot bigger than him or Ron.
"But we don't feet like leaving, do we, boys? We've eaten allour food and you still seem to have some."
Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Ron - Ronleapt forward, but before he'd so much as touched Goyle, Goyle letout a horrible yell.
Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp little teethsunk deep into Goyle's knuckle - Crabbe and Malfoy backed away asGoyle swung Scabbers round and round, howling, and when Scabbetsfinally flew off and hit the window, all three of them disappearedat once. Perhaps they thought there were more rats lurking among thesweets, or perhaps they'd heard footsteps, because a second later,Hermione Granger had come in.
"What has been going on?" she said, looking at the sweets allover the floor and Ron picking up Scabbers by his tail.
I think he's been knocked out," Ron said to Harry. He lookedcloser at Scabbers. "No -- I don't believe it -- he's gone backto sleep-"
And so he had.
"You've met Malfoy before?"
Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley.
"I've heard of his family," said Ron darkly. "They weresome of the first to come back to our side after You-Know-Whodisappeared. Said they'd been bewitched. My dad doesn't believeit. He says Malfoy's father didn't need an excuse to go over to theDark Side." He turned to Hermione. "Can we help you with something?"
"You'd better hurry up and put your robes on, I've just beenup to the front to ask the conductor, and he says we're nearlythere. You haven't been fighting, have you? You'll be in troublebefore we even get there!"
"Scabbers has been fighting, not us," said Ron, scowling ather. "Would you mind leaving while we change?"
"All right -- I only came in here because people outside arebehaving very childishly, racing up and down the corridors," saidHermione in a sniffy voice. "And you've got dirt on your nose,by the way, did you know?"
Ron glared at her as she left. Harry peered out of the window. Itwas getting dark. He could see mountains and forests under a deeppurple sky. The train did seem to be slowing down.
He and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their long blackrobes. Ron's were a bit short for him, you could see his sneakersunderneath them.
A voice echoed through the train: "We will be reaching Hogwartsin five minutes' time. Please leave your luggage on the train,it will be taken to the school separately."
Harry's stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, he saw, lookedpale under his freckles. They crammed their pockets with the lastof the sweets and joined the crowd thronging the corridor.
The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushedtheir way toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Harryshivered in the cold night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over theheads of the students, and Harry heard a familiar voice: "Firs'years! Firs' years over here! All right there, Harry?"
Hagrid's big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads.
"C'mon, follow me -- any more firs' years? Mind yer step,now! Firs' years follow me!"
Slipping and stumbling, they followed Hagrid down what seemedto be a steep, narrow path. It was so dark on either side of themthat Harry thought there must be thick trees there. Nobody spokemuch. Neville, the boy who kept losing his toad, sniffed onceor twice.
"Ye' all get yer firs' sight o' Hogwarts in a sec," Hagridcalled over his shoulder, "jus' round this bend here."
There was a loud "Oooooh!"
The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a greatblack take. Perched atop a high mountain on the other side, itswindows sparkling in the starry sky, was a vast castle with manyturrets and towers.
"No more'n four to a boat!" Hagrid called, pointing to a fleetof little boats sitting in the water by the shore. Harry and Ronwere followed into their boat by Neville and Hermione. "Everyonein?" shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to himself. "Right then --FORWARD!"
And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, glidingacross the lake, which was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent,staring up at the great castle overhead. It towered over them asthey sailed nearer and nearer to the cliff on which it stood.
"Heads down!" yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached the cliff;they all bent their heads and the little boats carried them through acurtain of ivy that hid a wide opening in the cliff face. They werecarried along a dark tunnel, which seemed to be taking them rightunderneath the castle, until they reached a kind of undergroundharbor, where they clambered out onto rocks and pebbles.
"Oy, you there! Is this your toad?" said Hagrid, who was checkingthe boats as people climbed out of them.
"Trevor!" cried Neville blissfully, holding out his hands. Thenthey clambered up a passageway in the rock after Hagrid's lamp,coming out at last onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow ofthe castle.
They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around thehuge, Oak front door.
"Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?"
Hagrid raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on thecastle door.
CHAPTER SEVEN
THE SORTING HAT
The door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch inemerald-green robes stood there. She had a very stern face andHarry's first thought was that this was not someone to cross.
"The firs' years, Professor McGonagall," said Hagrid.
"Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here."
She pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so big youcould have fit the whole of the Dursleys' house in it. The stonewalls were lit with flaming torches like the ones at Gringotts,the ceiling was too high to make out, and a magnificent marblestaircase facing them led to the upper floors.
They followed Professor McGonagall across the flagged stonefloor. Harry could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from adoorway to the right -the rest of the school must already be here-- but Professor McGonagall showed the first years into a small,empty chamber off the hall. They crowded in, standing rather closertogether than they would usually have done, peering about nervously.
"Welcome to Hogwarts," said Professor McGonagall. "Thestart-of-term banquet will begin shortly, but before you take yourseats in the Great Hall, you will be sorted into your houses. TheSorting is a very important ceremony because, while you are here,your house will be something like your family within Hogwarts. Youwill have classes with the rest of your house, sleep in your housedormitory, and spend free time in your house common room.
"The four houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw,and Slytherin. Each house has its own noble history and each hasproduced outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts,your triumphs will earn your house points, while any rulebreakingwill lose house points. At the end of the year, the house with themost points is awarded the house cup, a great honor. I hope eachof you will be a credit to whichever house becomes yours.
"The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in frontof the rest of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves upas much as you can while you are waiting."
Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville's cloak, which wasfastened under his left ear, and on Ron's smudged nose. Harrynervously tried to flatten his hair.
"I shall return when we are ready for you," said ProfessorMcGonagall. "Please wait quietly."
She left the chamber. Harry swallowed.
"How exactly do they sort us into houses?" he asked Ron.
"Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but Ithink he was joking."
Harry's heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the wholeschool? But he didn't know any magic yet -- what on earth would hehave to do? He hadn't expected something like this the moment theyarrived. He looked around anxiously and saw that everyone elselooked terrified, too. No one was talking much except HermioneGranger, who was whispering very fast about all the spells she'dlearned and wondering which one she'd need. Harry tried hard not tolisten to her. He'd never been more nervous, never, not even whenhe'd had to take a school report home to the Dursleys saying thathe'd somehow turned his teacher's wig blue. He kept his eyes fixedon the door. Any second now, Professor McGonagall would come backand lead him to his doom.
Then something happened that made him jump about a foot in theair -- several people behind him screamed.
"What the --?"
He gasped. So did the people around him. About twenty ghostshad just streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightlytransparent, they glided across the room talking to one another andhardly glancing at the first years. They seemed to be arguing. Whatlooked like a fat little monk was saying: "Forgive and forget,I say, we ought to give him a second chance --"
"My dear Friar, haven't we given Peeves all the chances hedeserves? He gives us all a bad name and you know, he's not reallyeven a ghost -- I say, what are you all doing here?"
A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed thefirst years.
Nobody answered.
"New students!" said the Fat Friar, smiling around atthem. "About to be Sorted, I suppose?"
A few people nodded mutely.
"Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!" said the Friar. "My old house,you know."
"Move along now," said a sharp voice. "The Sorting Ceremony'sabout to start."
Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, the ghostsfloated away through the opposite wall.
"Now, form a line," Professor McGonagall told the first years,"and follow me."
Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, Harry gotinto line behind a boy with sandy hair, with Ron behind him, andthey walked out of the chamber, back across the hall, and througha pair of double doors into the Great Hall.
Harry had never even imagined such a strange and splendidplace. It was lit by thousands and thousands of candles thatwere floating in midair over four long tables, where the rest ofthe students were sitting. These tables were laid with glitteringgolden plates and goblets. At the top of the hall was another longtable where the teachers were sitting. Professor McGonagall ledthe first years up here, so that they came to a halt in a linefacing the other students, with the teachers behind them. Thehundreds of faces staring at them looked like pale lanterns in theflickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among the students,the ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring eyes,Harry looked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted withstars. He heard
Hermione whisper, "Its bewitched to look like the sky outside. Iread about it in Hogwarts, A History."
It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, andthat the Great Hall didn't simply open on to the heavens.
Harry quickly looked down again as Professor McGonagall silentlyplaced a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of thestool she put a pointed wizard's hat. This hat was patched and frayedand extremely dirty. Aunt Petunia wouldn't have let it in the house.
Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry thoughtwildly, that seemed the sort of thing -- noticing that everyone inthe hall was now staring at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a fewseconds, there was complete silence. Then the hat twitched. A ripnear the brim opened wide like a mouth -- and the hat began to sing:
"Oh, you may not think I'm pretty,
But don't judge on what you see,
I'll eat myself if you can find
A smarter hat than me.
You can keep your bowlers black,
Your top hats sleek and tall,
For I'm the Hogwarts Sorting Hat
And I can cap them all.
There's nothing hidden in your head
The Sorting Hat can't see,
So try me on and I will tell you
Where you ought to be.
You might belong in Gryffindor,
Where dwell the brave at heart,
Their daring, nerve, and chivalry Set Gryffindors apart;
You might belong in Hufflepuff,
Where they are just and loyal,
Those patient Hufflepuffis are true And unafraid of toil;
Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw,
if you've a ready mind,
Where those of wit and learning,
Will always find their kind;
Or perhaps in Slytherin
You'll make your real friends,
Those cunning folk use any means
To achieve their ends.
So put me on! Don't be afraid!
And don't get in a flap!
You're in safe hands (though I have none)
For I'm a Thinking Cap!"
The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished itssong. It bowed to each of the four tables and then became quitestill again.
"So we've just got to try on the hat!" Ron whispered toHarry. "I'll kill Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll."
Harry. smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot betterthan having to do a spell, but he did wish they could have tried iton without everyone watching. The hat seemed to be asking ratheralot; Harry didn't feel brave or quick-witted or any of it at themoment. If only the hat had mentioned a house for people who felta bit queasy, that would have been the one for him.
Professor McGonagall now stepped forward holding a long rollof parchment.
"When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on thestool to be sorted," she said. "Abbott, Hannah!"
A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line,put on the hat, which fell right down over her eyes, and sat down. Amoments pause --
"HUFFLEPUFF!" shouted the hat.
The table on the right cheered and clapped as Hannah went tosit down at the Hufflepuff table. Harry saw the ghost of the FatFriar waving merrily at her.
"Bones, Susan!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!" shouted the hat again, and Susan scuttled off tosit next to Hannah.
"Boot, Terry!"
"RAVENCLAW!"
The table second from the left clapped this time; severalRavenclaws stood up to shake hands with Terry as he joined them.
" Brocklehurst, Mandy" went to Ravenclaw too, but "Brown,Lavender" became the first new Gryffindor, and the table on thefar left exploded with cheers; Harry could see Ron's twin brotherscatcalling.
"Bulstrode, Millicent" then became a Slytherin. Perhaps itwas Harry's imagination, after all he'd heard about Slytherin,but he thought they looked like an unpleasant lot. He was startingto feel definitely sick now. He remembered being picked for teamsduring gym at his old school. He had always been last to be chosen,not because he was no good, but because no one wanted Dudley tothink they liked him.
"Finch-Fletchley, Justin!"
"HUFFLEPUFF!"
Sometimes, Harry noticed, the hat shouted out the house at once,but at others it took a little while to decide. "Finnigan, Seamus,"the sandy-haired boy next to Harry in the line, sat on the stoolfor almost a whole minute before the hat declared him a Gryffindor.
"Granger, Hermione!"
Hermione almost ran to the stool and jammed the hat eagerly onher head.
"GRYFFINDOR!" shouted the hat. Ron groaned.
A horrible thought struck Harry, as horrible thoughts alwaysdo when you're very nervous. What if he wasn't chosen at all? Whatif he just sat there with the hat over his eyes for ages, untilProfessor McGonagall jerked it off his head and said there hadobviously been a mistake and he'd better get back on the train?
When Neville Longbottom, the boy who kept losing his toad, wascalled, he fell over on his way to the stool. The hat took a longtime to decide with Neville. When it finally shouted, "GRYFFINDOR,"Neville ran off still wearing it, and had to jog back amid galesof laughter to give it to "MacDougal, Morag."
Malfoy swaggered forward when his name was called and got hiswish at once: the hat had barely touched his head when it screamed,"SLYTHERIN!"
Malfoy went to join his friends Crabbe and Goyle, lookingpleased with himself.
There weren't many people left now. "Moon" "Nott" "Parkinson"then a pair of twin girls, "Patil" and "Patil" then "Perks,Sally-Anne" and then, at last -- "Potter, Harry!"
As Harry stepped forward, whispers suddenly broke out likelittle hissing fires all over the hall.
"Potter, did she say?"
The Harry Potter?"
The last thing Harry saw before the hat dropped over his eyeswas the hall full of people craning to get a good look at him. Nextsecond he was looking at the black inside of the hat. He waited.
Hmm," said a small voice in his ear. "Difficult. Verydifficult. Plenty of courage, I see. Not a bad mind either. There'stalent, A my goodness, yes -- and a nice thirst to prove yourself,now that's interesting.... So where shall I put you?"
Harry gripped the edges of the stool and thought, Not Slytherin,not Slytherin.
"Not Slytherin, eh?" said the small voice. "Are you sure? Youcould be great, you know, it's all here in your head, and Slytherinwill help you on the way to greatness, no doubt about that --no? Well, if you're sure -- better be GRYFFINDOR!"
Harry heard the hat shout the last word to the whole hall. Hetook off the hat and walked shakily toward the Gryffindor table. Hewas so relieved to have been chosen and not put in Slytherin, hehardly noticed that he was getting the loudest cheer yet. Percythe Prefect got up and shook his hand vigorously, while the Weasleytwins yelled, "We got Potter! We got Potter!" Harry sat down oppositethe ghost in the ruff he'd seen earlier. The ghost patted his arm,giving Harry the sudden, horrible feeling he'd just plunged it intoa bucket of ice-cold water.
He could see the High Table properly now. At the end nearest himsat Hagrid, who caught his eye and gave him the thumbs up. Harrygrinned back. And there, in the center of the High Table, in alarge gold chair, sat Albus Dumbledore. Harry recognized him atonce from the card he'd gotten out of the Chocolate Frog on thetrain. Dumbledore's silver hair was the only thing in the wholehall that shone as brightly as the ghosts. Harry spotted ProfessorQuirtell, too, the nervous young man from the Leaky Cauldron. Hewas looking very peculiar in a large purple turban.
And now there were only three people left to be sorted. "Thomas,Dean," a Black boy even taller than Ron, joined Harry at theGryffindor table. "Turpin, Lisa," became a Ravenclaw and then itwas Ron's turn. He was pale green by now. Harry crossed his fingersunder the table and a second later the hat had shouted, "GRYFFINDOR!"
Harry clapped loudly with the rest as Ron collapsed into thechair next to him.
"Well done, Ron, excellent," said Percy Weasley Pompouslyacross Harry as "Zabini, Blaise," was made a Slytherin. ProfessorMcGonagall rolled up her scroll and took the Sorting Hat away.
Harry looked down at his empty gold plate. He had only justrealized how hungry he was. The pumpkin pasties seemed ages ago.
Albus Dumbledore had gotten to his feet. He was beaming at thestudents, his arms opened wide, as if nothing could have pleasedhim more than to see them all there.
"Welcome," he said. "Welcome to a new year at Hogwarts! Beforewe begin our banquet, I would like to say a few words. And herethey are: Nitwit! Blubber! Oddment! Tweak!
"Thank you!"
He sat back down. Everybody clapped and cheered. Harry didn'tknow whether to laugh or not.
"Is he -- a bit mad?" he asked Percy uncertainly.
"Mad?" said Percy airily. "He's a genius! Best wizard in theworld! But he is a bit mad, yes. Potatoes, Harry?"
Harry's mouth fell open. The dishes in front of him were nowpiled with food. He had never seen so many things he liked to eaton one table: roast beef, roast chicken, pork chops and lamb chops,sausages, bacon and steak, boiled potatoes, roast potatoes, fries,Yorkshire pudding, peas, carrots, gravy, ketchup, and, for somestrange reason, peppermint humbugs.
The Dursleys had never exactly starved Harry, but he'd neverbeen allowed to eat as much as he liked. Dudley had always takenanything that Harry really wanted, even if It made him sick. Harrypiled his plate with a bit of everything except the peppermintsand began to eat. It was all delicious.
"That does look good," said the ghost in the ruff sadly,watching Harry cut up his steak,
"Can't you --?"
I haven't eaten for nearly four hundred years," said theghost. "I don't need to, of course, but one does miss it. I don'tthink I've in troduced myself? Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington atyour service. Resident ghost of Gryffindor Tower."
"I know who you are!" said Ron suddenly. "My brothers told meabout you -- you're Nearly Headless Nick!"
"I would prefer you to call me Sir Nicholas de Mimsy --" theghost began stiffly, but sandy-haired Seamus Finnigan interrupted.
"Nearly Headless? How can you be nearly headless?"
Sir Nicholas looked extremely miffed, as if their little chatwasn't going at all the way he wanted.
"Like this," he said irritably. He seized his left ear andpulled. His whole head swung off his neck and fell onto his shoulderas if it was on a hinge. Someone had obviously tried to behead him,but not done it properly. Looking pleased at the stunned looks ontheir faces, Nearly Headless Nick flipped his head back onto hisneck, coughed, and said, "So -- new Gryffindors! I hope you're goingto help us win the house championship this year? Gryffindors havenever gone so long without winning. Slytherins have got the cup sixyears in a row! The Bloody Baron's becoming almost unbearable --he's the Slytherin ghost."
Harry looked over at the Slytherin table and saw a horribleghost sitting there, with blank staring eyes, a gaunt face, androbes stained with silver blood. He was right next to Malfoy who,Harry was pleased to see, didn't look too pleased with the seatingarrangements.
"How did he get covered in blood?" asked Seamus with greatinterest.
"I've never asked," said Nearly Headless Nick delicately.
When everyone had eaten as much as they could, the remains ofthe food faded from the plates, leaving them sparkling clean asbefore. A moment later the desserts appeared. Blocks of ice creamin every flavor you could think of, apple pies, treacle tarts,chocolate eclairs and jam doughnuts, trifle, strawberries, Jell-O,rice pudding -- "
As Harry helped himself to a treacle tart, the talk turned totheir families.
"I'm half-and-half," said Seamus. "Me dad's a Muggle. Momdidn't tell him she was a witch 'til after they were married. Bitof a nasty shock for him."
The others laughed.
"What about you, Neville?" said Ron.
"Well, my gran brought me up and she's a witch," said Neville,"but the family thought I was all- Muggle for ages. My Great UncleAlgie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic outof me -- he pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearlydrowned -- but nothing happened until I was eight. Great Uncle Algiecame round for dinner, and he was hanging me out of an upstairswindow by the ankles when my Great Auntie Enid offered him a meringueand he accidentally let go. But I bounced -- all the way down thegarden and into the road. They were all really pleased, Gran wascrying, she was so happy. And you should have seen their faces whenI got in here -- they thought I might not be magic enough to come,you see. Great Uncle Algie was so pleased he bought me my toad."
On Harry's other side, Percy Weasley and Hermione were talkingabout lessons ("I do hope they start right away, there's so muchto learn, I'm particularly interested in Transfiguration, you know,turning something into something else, of course, it's supposed tobe very difficult-"; "You'll be starting small, just matches intoneedles and that sort of thing -- ").
Harry, who was starting to feel warm and sleepy, looked up at
the High Table again. Hagrid was drinking deeply fromhis goblet. Professor McGonagall was talking to ProfessorDumbledore. Professor Quirrell, in his absurd turban, was talkingto a teacher with greasy black hair, a hooked nose, and sallow skin.
It happened very suddenly. The hook-nosed teacher looked pastQuirrell's turban straight into Harry's eyes -- and a sharp, hotpain shot across the scar on Harry's forehead.
"Ouch!" Harry clapped a hand to his head.
"What is it?" asked Percy.
"N-nothing."
The pain had gone as quickly as it had come. Harder to shakeoff was the feeling Harry had gotten from the teacher's look --a feeling that he didn't like Harry at all.
"Who's that teacher talking to Professor Quirrell?" he askedPercy.
"Oh, you know Quirrell already, do you? No wonder he's looking sonervous, that's Professor Snape. He teaches Potions, but he doesn'twant to -- everyone knows he's after Quirrell's job. Knows an awfullot about the Dark Arts, Snape."
Harry watched Snape for a while, but Snape didn't look athim again.
At last, the desserts too disappeared, and Professor Dumbledoregot to his feet again. The hall fell silent.
"Ahern -- just a few more words now that we are all fed andwatered. I have a few start-of-term notices to give you.
"First years should note that the forest on the grounds isforbidden to all pupils. And a few of our older students would dowell to remember that as well."
Dumbledore's twinkling eyes flashed in the direction of theWeasley twins.
"I have also been asked by Mr. Filch, the caretaker, toremind you all that no magic should be used between classes inthe corridors.
"Quidditch trials will be held in the second week of theterm. Anyone interested in playing for their house teams shouldcontact Madam Hooch.
"And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floorcorridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone whodoes not wish to die a very painful death."
Harry laughed, but he was one of the few who did.
"He's not serious?" he muttered to Percy.
"Must be," said Percy, frowning at Dumbledore. "It's odd,because he usually gives us a reason why we're not allowed to gosomewhere -- the forest's full of dangerous beasts, everyone knowsthat. I do think he might have told us prefects, at least."
"And now, before we go to bed, let us sing the schoolsong!" cried Dumbledore. Harry noticed that the other teachers'smiles had become rather fixed.
Dumbledore gave his wand a little flick, as if he was trying toget a fly off the end, and a long golden ribbon flew out of it, whichrose high above the tables and twisted itself, snakelike, into words.
"Everyone pick their favorite tune," said Dumbledore, "and offwe go!" And the school bellowed:
"Hogwarts, Hogwarts, Hoggy Warty Hogwarts,
Teach us something please,
Whether we be old and bald
Or young with scabby knees,
Our heads could do with filling
With some interesting stuff,
For now they're bare and full of air,
Dead flies and bits of fluff,
So teach us things worth knowing,
Bring back what we've forgot,
just do your best, we'll do the rest,
And learn until our brains all rot.
Everybody finished the song at different times. At last, onlythe Weasley twins were left singing along to a very slow funeralmarch. Dumbledore conducted their last few lines with his wand andwhen they had finished, he was one of those who clapped loudest.
"Ah, music," he said, wiping his eyes. "A magic beyond all wedo here! And now, bedtime. Off you trot!"
The Gryffindor first years followed Percy through the chatteringcrowds, out of the Great Hall, and up the marble staircase. Harry'slegs were like lead again, but only because he was so tired andfull of food. He was too sleepy even to be surprised that the peoplein the portraits along the corridors whispered and pointed as theypassed, or that twice Percy led them through doorways hidden behindsliding panels and hanging tapestries. They climbed more staircases,yawning and dragging their feet, and Harry was just wondering howmuch farther they had to go when they came to a sudden halt.
A bundle of walking sticks was floating in midair ahead of them,and as Percy took a step toward them they started throwing themselvesat him.
"Peeves," Percy whispered to the first years. "A poltergeist." Heraised his voice, "Peeves -- show yourself"
A loud, rude sound, like the air being let out of a balloon,answered.
"Do you want me to go to the Bloody Baron?"
There was a pop, and a little man with wicked, dark eyes and awide mouth appeared, floating cross- legged in the air, clutchingthe walking sticks.
"Oooooooh!" he said, with an evil cackle. "Ickle Firsties! Whatfun!"
He swooped suddenly at them. They all ducked.
"Go away, Peeves, or the Baron'll hear about this, I meanit!" barked Percy.
Peeves stuck out his tongue and vanished, dropping the walkingsticks on Neville's head. They heard him zooming away, rattlingcoats of armor as he passed.
"You want to watch out for Peeves," said Percy, as they setoff again. "The Bloody Baron's the only one who can control him,he won't even listen to us prefects. Here we are."
At the very end of the corridor hung a portrait of a very fatwoman in a pink silk dress.
"Password?" she said. "Caput Draconis," said Percy, and theportrait swung forward to reveal a round hole in the wall. Theyall scrambled through it -- Neville needed a leg up -- and foundthemselves in the Gryffindor common room, a cozy, round room fullof squashy armchairs.
Percy directed the girls through one door to their dormitoryand the boys through another. At the top of a spiral staircase --they were obviously in one of the towers -- they found their beds atlast: five four-posters hung with deep red, velvet curtains. Theirtrunks had already been brought up. Too tired to talk much, theypulled on their pajamas and fell into bed.
" Great food, isn't it?" Ron muttered to Harry through thehangings. "Get off, Scabbers! He's chewing my sheets."
Harry was going to ask Ron if he'd had any of the treacle tart,but he fell asleep almost at once.
Perhaps Harry had eaten a bit too much, because he had a verystrange dream. He was wearing Professor Quirrell's turban, whichkept talking to him, telling him he must transfer to Slytherin atonce, because it was his destiny. Harry told the turban he didn'twant to be in Slytherin; it got heavier and heavier; he tried topull it off but it tightened painfully -- and there was Malfoy,laughing at him as he struggled with it -then Malfoy turned into thehook-nosed teacher, Snape, whose laugh became high and cold -- therewas a burst of green light and Harry woke, sweating and shaking.
He rolled over and fell asleep again, and when he woke next day,he didn't remember the dream at all.
CHAPTER EIGHT
THE POTIONS MASTER
There, look."
"Where?"
"Next to the tall kid with the red hair."
"Wearing the glasses?"
"Did you see his face?"
"Did you see his scar?"
Whispers followed Harry from the moment he left his dormitorythe next day. People lining up outside classrooms stood on tiptoeto get a look at him, or doubled back to pass him in the corridorsagain, staring. Harry wished they wouldn't, because he was tryingto concentrate on finding his way to classes.
There were a hundred and forty-two staircases at Hogwarts:wide, sweeping ones; narrow, rickety ones; some that led somewheredifferent on a Friday; some with a vanishing step halfway up thatyou had to remember to jump. Then there were doors that wouldn'topen unless you asked politely, or tickled them in exactly the rightplace, and doors that weren't really doors at all, but solid wallsjust pretending. It was also very hard to remember where anythingwas, because it all seemed to move around a lot. The people in theportraits kept going to visit each other, and Harry was sure thecoats of armor could walk.
The ghosts didn't help, either. It was always a nasty shockwhen one of them glided suddenly through a door you were trying toopen. Nearly Headless Nick was always happy to point new Gryffindorsin the right direction, but Peeves the Poltergeist was worth twolocked doors and a trick staircase if you met him when you werelate for class. He would drop wastepaper baskets on your head, pullrugs from under your feet, pelt you with bits of chalk, or sneak upbehind you, invisible, grab your nose, and screech, "GOT YOUR CONK!"
Even worse than Peeves, if that was possible, was the caretaker,Argus Filch. Harry and Ron managed to get on the wrong side of him ontheir very first morning. Filch found them trying to force their waythrough a door that unluckily turned out to be the entrance to theout-of-bounds corridor on the third floor. He wouldn't believe theywere lost, was sure they were trying to break into it on purpose,and was threatening to lock them in the dungeons when they wererescued by Professor Quirrell, who was passing.
Filch owned a cat called Mrs. Norris, a scrawny, dust-coloredcreature with bulging, lamp like eyes just like Filch's. Shepatrolled the corridors alone. Break a rule in front of her, put justone toe out of line, and she'd whisk off for Filch, who'd appear,wheezing, two seconds later. Filch knew the secret passageways ofthe school better than anyone (except perhaps the Weasley twins)and could pop up as suddenly as any of the ghosts. The studentsall hated him, and it was the dearest ambition of many to giveMrs. Norris a good kick.
And then, once you had managed to find them, there were theclasses themselves. There was a lot more to magic, as Harry quicklyfound out, than waving your wand and saying a few funny words.
They had to study the night skies through their telescopes everyWednesday at midnight and learn the names of different stars andthe movements of the planets. Three times a week they went out tothe greenhouses behind the castle to study Herbology, with a dumpylittle witch called Professor Sprout, where they learned how totake care of all the strange plants and fungi, and found out whatthey were used for.
Easily the most boring class was History of Magic, which wasthe only one taught by a ghost. Professor Binns had been very old
indeed when he had fallen asleep in front of the staff roomfire and got up next morning to teach, leaving his body behindhim. Binns droned on and on while they scribbled down names anddates, and got Emetic the Evil and Uric the Oddball mixed up.
Professor Flitwick, the Charms teacher, was a tiny little wizardwho had to stand on a pile of books to see over his desk. At thestart of their first class he took the roll call, and when he reachedHarry's name he gave an excited squeak and toppled out of sight.
Professor McGonagall was again different. Harry had been quiteright to think she wasn't a teacher to cross. Strict and clever, shegave them a talking-to the moment they sat down in her first class.
"Transfiguration is some of the most complex and dangerous magicyou will learn at Hogwarts," she said. "Anyone messing around inmy class will leave and not come back. You have been warned."
Then she changed her desk into a pig and back again. Theywere all very impressed and couldn't wait to get started, butsoon realized they weren't going to be changing the furniture intoanimals for a long time. After taking a lot of complicated notes,they were each given a match and started trying to turn it into aneedle. By the end of the lesson, only Hermione Granger had madeany difference to her match; Professor McGonagall showed the classhow it had gone all silver and pointy and gave Hermione a rare smile.
The class everyone had really been looking forward to wasDefense Against the Dark Arts, but Quirrell's lessons turned out tobe a bit of a joke. His classroom smelled strongly of garlic, whicheveryone said was to ward off a vampire he'd met in Romania andwas afraid would be coming back to get him one of these days. Histurban, he told them, had been given to him by an African princeas a thank-you for getting rid of a troublesome zombie, but theyweren't sure they believed this story. For one thing, when SeamusFinnigan asked eagerly to hear how Quirrell had fought off thezombie, Quirrell went pink and started talking about the weather;for another, they had noticed that a funny smell hung around theturban, and the Weasley twins insisted that it was stuffed full ofgarlic as well, so that Quirrell was protected wherever he went.
Harry was very relieved to find out that he wasn't miles behindeveryone else. Lots of people had come from Muggle families and, likehim, hadn't had any idea that they were witches and wizards. Therewas so much to learn that even people like Ron didn't have much ofa head start.
Friday was an important day for Harry and Ron. They finallymanaged to find their way down to the Great Hall for breakfastwithout getting lost once.
"What have we got today?" Harry asked Ron as he poured sugaron his porridge.
"Double Potions with the Slytherins," said Ron. "Snape's Headof Slytherin House. They say he always favors them -- we'll be ableto see if it's true."
"Wish McGonagall favored us, " said Harry. Professor McGonagallwas head of Gryffindor House, but it hadn't stopped her from givingthem a huge pile of homework the day before.
Just then, the mail arrived. Harry had gotten used to this bynow, but it had given him a bit of a shock on the first morning,when about a hundred owls had suddenly streamed into the Great Hallduring breakfast, circling the tables until they saw their owners,and dropping letters and packages onto their laps.
Hedwig hadn't brought Harry anything so far. She sometimesflew in to nibble his ear and have a bit of toast before going offto sleep in the owlery with the other school owls. This morning,however, she fluttered down between the marmalade and the sugarbowl and dropped a note onto Harry's plate. Harry tore it open atonce. It said, in a very untidy scrawl:
Dear Harry,
I know you get Friday afternoons off, so would you like to comeand have a cup of tea with me around three?
I want to hear all about your first week. Send us an answerback with Hedwig.
Hagrid
Harry borrowed Ron's quill, scribbled Yes, please, see youlater on the back of the note, and sent Hedwig off again.
It was lucky that Harry had tea with Hagrid to look forward to,because the Potions lesson turned out to be the worst thing thathad happened to him so far.
At the start-of-term banquet, Harry had gotten the idea thatProfessor Snape disliked him. By the end of the first Potions lesson,he knew he'd been wrong. Snape didn't dislike Harry -- he hated him.
Potions lessons took place down in one of the dungeons. It wascolder here than up in the main castle, and would have been quitecreepy enough without the pickled animals floating in glass jarsall around the walls.
Snape, like Flitwick, started the class by taking the roll call,and like Flitwick, he paused at Harry's name.
"Ah, Yes," he said softly, "Harry Potter. Our new -- celebrity."
Draco Malfoy and his friends Crabbe and Goyle sniggered behindtheir hands. Snape finished calling the names and looked up atthe class. His eyes were black like Hagrid's, but they had noneof Hagrid's warmth. They were cold and empty and made you think ofdark tunnels.
"You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art ofpotionmaking," he began. He spoke in barely more than a whisper,but they caught every word -- like Professor McGonagall, Snape hady caught every word -- like Professor McGonagall, Snape had thegift of keeping a class silent without effort. "As there is littlefoolish wand-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this ismagic. I don't expect you will really understand the beauty of thesoftly simmering cauldron with its shimmering fumes, the delicatepower of liquids that creep through human veins, bewitching themind, ensnaring the senses.... I can teach you how to bottle fame,brew glory, even stopper death -- if you aren't as big a bunch ofdunderheads as I usually have to teach."
More silence followed this little speech. Harry and Ron exchangedlooks with raised eyebrows. Hermione Granger was on the edge ofher seat and looked desperate to start proving that she wasn'ta dunderhead.
"Potter!" said Snape suddenly. "What would I get if I addedpowdered root of asphodel to an infusion of wormwood?"
Powdered root of what to an infusion of what? Harry glanced atRon, who looked as stumped as he was; Hermione's hand had shot intothe air.
"I don't know, sit," said Harry.
Snape's lips curled into a sneer.
"Tut, tut -- fame clearly isn't everything."
He ignored Hermione's hand.
"Let's try again. Potter, where would you look if I told youto find me a bezoar?"
Hermione stretched her hand as high into the air as it would gowithout her leaving her seat, but Harry didn't have the faintestidea what a bezoar was. He tried not to look at Malfoy, Crabbe,and Goyle, who were shaking with laughter.
"I don't know, sit." "Thought you wouldn't open a book beforecoming, eh, Potter?" Harry forced himself to keep looking straightinto those cold eyes. He had looked through his books at theDursleys', but did Snape expect him to remember everything in OneThousand Magical Herbs and Fungi?
Snape was still ignoring Hermione's quivering hand.
"What is the difference, Potter, between monkshood andwolfsbane?"
At this, Hermione stood up, her hand stretching toward thedungeon ceiling.
"I don't know," said Harry quietly. "I think Hermione does,though, why don't you try her?"
A few people laughed; Harry caught Seamus's eye, and Seamuswinked. Snape, however, was not pleased.
"Sit down," he snapped at Hermione. "For your information,Potter, asphodel and wormwood make a sleeping potion so powerful itis known as the Draught of Living Death. A bezoar is a stone takenfrom the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons. Asfor monkshood and wolfsbane, they are the same plant, which also goesby the name of aconite. Well? Why aren't you all copying that down?"
There was a sudden rummaging for quills and parchment. Overthe noise, Snape said, "And a point will be taken from GryffindorHouse for your cheek, Potter."
Things didn't improve for the Gryffindors as the Potions lessoncontinued. Snape put them all into pairs and set them to mixing up asimple potion to cure boils. He swept around in his long black cloak,watching them weigh dried nettles and crush snake fangs, criticizingalmost everyone except Malfoy, whom he seemed to like. He was justtelling everyone to look at the perfect way Malfoy had stewed hishorned slugs when clouds of acid green smoke and a loud hissingfilled the dungeon. Neville had somehow managed to melt Seamus'scauldron into a twisted blob, and their potion was seeping acrossthe stone floor, burning holes in people's shoes. Within seconds,the whole class was standing on their stools while Neville, who hadbeen drenched in the potion when the cauldron collapsed, moaned inpain as angry red boils sprang up all over his arms and legs.
"Idiot boy!" snarled Snape, clearing the spilled potion awaywith one wave of his wand. "I suppose you added the porcupine quillsbefore taking the cauldron off the fire?"
Neville whimpered as boils started to pop up all over his nose.
"Take him up to the hospital wing," Snape spat at Seamus. Thenhe rounded on Harry and Ron, who had been working next to Neville.
"You -- Potter -- why didn't you tell him not to add thequills? Thought he'd make you look good if he got it wrong, didyou? That's another point you've lost for Gryffindor."
This was so unfair that Harry opened his mouth to argue, butRon kicked him behind their cauldron.
"Doi* push it," he muttered, "I've heard Snape can turn verynasty."
As they climbed the steps out of the dungeon an hour later,Harry's mind was racing and his spirits were low. He'd lost twopoints for Gryffindor in his very first week -- why did Snape hatehim so much? "Cheer up," said Ron, "Snape's always taking pointsoff Fred and George. Can I come and meet Hagrid with you?"
At five to three they left the castle and made their way acrossthe grounds. Hagrid lived in a small wooden house on the edge ofthe forbidden forest. A crossbow and a pair of galoshes were outsidethe front door.
When Harry knocked they heard a frantic scrabbling from insideand several booming barks. Then Hagrid's voice rang out, saying,"Back, Fang -- back."
Hagrid's big, hairy face appeared in the crack as he pulledthe door open.
"Hang on," he said. "Back, Fang."
He let them in, struggling to keep a hold on the collar of anenormous black boarhound.
There was only one room inside. Hams and pheasants were hangingfrom the ceiling, a copper kettle was boiling on the open fire,and in the corner stood a massive bed with a patchwork quilt over it.
"Make yerselves at home," said Hagrid, letting go of Fang, whobounded straight at Ron and started licking his ears. Like Hagrid,Fang was clearly not as fierce as he looked.
"This is Ron," Harry told Hagrid, who was pouring boiling waterinto a large teapot and putting rock cakes onto a plate.
"Another Weasley, eh?" said Hagrid, glancing at Ron's freckles. Ispent half me life chasin' yer twin brothers away from the forest."
The rock cakes were shapeless lumps with raisins that almostbroke their teeth, but Harry and Ron pretended to be enjoying themas they told Hagrid all about their first -lessons. Fang restedhis head on Harry's knee and drooled all over his robes.
Harry and Ron were delighted to hear Hagrid call Fitch "thatold git."
"An' as fer that cat, Mrs. Norris, I'd like ter introduce herto Fang sometime. D'yeh know, every time I go up ter the school,she follows me everywhere? Can't get rid of her -- Fitch puts herup to it."
Harry told Hagrid about Snape's lesson. Hagrid, like Ron,told Harry not to worry about it, that Snape liked hardly any ofthe students.
"But he seemed to really hate me."
"Rubbish!" said Hagrid. "Why should he?"
Yet Harry couldn't help thinking that Hagrid didn't quite meethis eyes when he said that.
"How's yer brother Charlie?" Hagrid asked Ron. "I liked him alot -- great with animals."
Harry wondered if Hagrid had changed the subject onpurpose. While Ron told Hagrid all about Charlie's work with dragons,Harry picked up a piece of paper that was lying on the table underthe tea cozy. It was a cutting from the Daily Prophet:
GRINGOTTS BREAK-IN LATEST
Investigations continue into the break-in at Gringotts on 31July, widely believed to be the work of Dark wizards or witchesunknown.
Gringotts goblins today insisted that nothing had been taken. Thevault that was searched had in fact been emptied the same day.
"But we're not telling you what was in there, so keep your nosesout if you know what's good for you," said a Gringotts spokesgoblinthis afternoon.
Harry remembered Ron telling him on the train that someone hadtried to rob Gringotts, but Ron hadn't mentioned the date.
"Hagrid!" said Harry, "that Gringotts break-in happened on mybirthday! It might've been happening while we were there!"
There was no doubt about it, Hagrid definitely didn't meetHarry's eyes this time. He grunted and offered him another rockcake. Harry read the story again. The vault that was searched had infact been emptied earlier that same day. Hagrid had emptied vaultseven hundred and thirteen, if you could call it emptying, takingout that grubby little package. Had that been what the thieves werelooking for?
As Harry and Ron walked back to the castle for dinner, theirpockets weighed down with rock cakes they'd been too polite torefuse, Harry thought that none of the lessons he'd had so far hadgiven him as much to think about as tea with Hagrid. Had Hagridcollected that package just in time? Where was it now? And didHagrid know something about Snape that he didn't want to tell Harry?
CHAPTER NINE
THE MIDNIGHT DUEL
Harry had never believed he would meet a boy he hated more thanDudley, but that was before he met Draco Malfoy.    Still, first-yearGryffindors only had Potions with the Slytherins, so they didn'thave to put up with Malfoy much. Or at least, they didn't untilthey spotted a notice pinned up in the Gryffindor common room thatmade them all groan. Flying lessons would be starting on Thursday --and Gryffindor and Slytherin would be learning together.
"Typical," said Harry darkly. "Just what I always wanted. Tomake a fool of myself on a broomstick in front of Malfoy."
He had been looking forward to learning to fly more thananything else.
"You don't know that you'll make a fool of yourself," said Ronreasonably. "Anyway, I know Malfoy's always going on about how goodhe is at Quidditch, but I bet that's all talk."
Malfay certainly did talk about flying a lot. He complainedloudly about first years never getting on the house Quidditch teamsand told long, boastful stories that always seemed to end with himnarrowly escaping Muggles in helicopters. He wasn't the only one,though: the way Seamus Finnigan told it, he'd spent most of hischildhood zooming around the countryside on his broomstick. EvenRon would tell anyone who'd listen about the time he'd almost hit ahang glider on Charlie's old broom. Everyone from wizarding familiestalked about Quidditch constantly. Ron had already had a big argumentwith Dean Thomas, who shared their dormitory, about soccer. Roncouldn't see what was exciting about a game with only one ball whereno one was allowed to fly. Harry had caught Ron prodding Dean'sposter of West Ham soccer team, trying to make the players move.
Neville had never been on a broomstick in his life, because hisgrandmother had never let him near one. Privately, Harry felt she'dhad good reason, because Neville managed to have an extraordinarynumber of accidents even with both feet on the ground.
Hermione Granger was almost as nervous about flying as Nevillewas. This was something you couldn't learn by heart out of a book-- not that she hadn't tried. At breakfast on Thursday she boredthem all stupid with flying tips she'd gotten out of a librarybook called Quidditch Through the Ages. Neville was hanging on toher every word, desperate for anything that might help him hang onto his broomstick later, but everybody else was very pleased whenHermione's lecture was interrupted by the arrival of the mail.
Harry hadn't had a single letter since Hagrid's note, somethingthat Malfoy had been quick to notice, of course. Malfoy's eagleowl was always bringing him packages of sweets from home, which heopened gloatingly at the Slytherin table.
A barn owl brought Neville a small package from hisgrandmother. He opened it excitedly and showed them a glass ballthe size of a large marble, which seemed to be full of white smoke.
"It's a Remembrall!" he explained. "Gran knows I forget things --this tells you if there's something you've forgotten to do. Look,you hold it tight like this and if it turns red -- oh..." His facefell, because the Remembrall had suddenly glowed scarlet,
"You've forgotten something..."
Neville was trying to remember what he'd forgotten when DracoMalfoy, who was passing the Gryffindor table, snatched the Remembrallout of his hand.
Harry and Ron jumped to their feet. They were half hoping fora reason to fight Malfay, but Professor McGonagall, who could spottrouble quicker than any teacher in the school, was there in a flash.
"What's going on?"
"Malfoy's got my Remembrall, Professor."
Scowling, Malfoy quickly dropped the Remembrall back on thetable.
"Just looking," he said, and he sloped away with Crabbe andGoyle behind him.
At three-thirty that afternoon, Harry, Ron, and the otherGryffindors hurried down the front steps onto the grounds for theirfirst flying lesson. It was a clear, breezy day, and the grassrippled under their feet as they marched down the sloping lawnstoward a smooth, flat lawn on the opposite side of the grounds to theforbidden forest, whose trees were swaying darkly in the distance.
The Slytherins were already there, and so were twenty broomstickslying in neat lines on the ground. Harry had heard Fred and GeorgeWeasley complain about the school brooms, saying that some of themstarted to vibrate if you flew too high, or always flew slightlyto the left.
Their teacher, Madam Hooch, arrived. She had short, gray hair,and yellow eyes like a hawk.
"Well, what are you all waiting for?" she barked. "Everyonestand by a broomstick. Come on, hurry up."
Harry glanced down at his broom. It was old and some of thetwigs stuck out at odd angles.
"Stick out your right hand over your broom," called Madam Hoochat the front, "and say 'Up!"'
"UPF everyone shouted.
Harry's broom jumped into his hand at once, but it was oneof the few that did. Hermione Granger's had simply rolled overon the ground, and Neville's hadn't moved at all. Perhaps brooms,like horses, could tell when you were afraid, thought Harry; therewas a quaver in Neville's voice that said only too clearly that hewanted to keep his feet on the ground.
Madam Hooch then showed them how to mount their brooms withoutsliding off the end, and walked up and down the rows correctingtheir grips. Harry and Ron were delighted when she told Malfoy he'dbeen doing it wrong for years.
"Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground,hard," said Madam Hooch. "Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet,and then come straight back down by leaning forward slightly. Onmy whistle -- three -- two --"
But Neville, nervous and jumpy and frightened of being left onthe ground, pushed off hard before the whistle had touched MadamHooch's lips.
"Come back, boy!" she shouted, but Neville was rising straight uplike a cork shot out of a bottle -- twelve feet -- twenty feet. Harrysaw his scared white face look down at the ground falling away,saw him gasp, slip sideways off the broom and --
WHAM -- a thud and a nasty crack and Neville lay facedown onthe grass in a heap. His broomstick was still rising higher andhigher, and started to drift lazily toward the forbidden forestand out of sight.
Madam Hooch was bending over Neville, her face as white as his.
"Broken wrist," Harry heard her mutter. "Come on, boy -- it'sall right, up you get.".
She turned to the rest of the class.
"None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospitalwing! You leave those brooms where they are or you'll be out ofHogwarts before you can say 'Quidditch.' Come on, dear."
Neville, his face tear-streaked, clutching his wrist, hobbledoff with Madam Hooch, who had her arm around him.
No sooner were they out of earshot than Malfoy burst intolaughter.
"Did you see his face, the great lump?"
The other Slytherins joined in.
"Shut up, Malfoy," snapped Parvati Patil.
"Ooh, sticking up for Longbottom?" said Pansy Parkinson, ahard-faced Slytherin girl. "Never thought you'd like fat littlecrybabies, Parvati."
"Look!" said Malfoy, darting forward and snatching something outof the grass. "It's that stupid thing Longbottom's gran sent him."
The Remembrall glittered in the sun as he held it up.
"Give that here, Malfoy," said Harry quietly. Everyone stoppedtalking to watch.
Malfoy smiled nastily.
"I think I'll leave it somewhere for Longbottom to find --how about -- up a tree?"
"Give it here!" Harry yelled, but Malfoy had leapt ontohis broomstick and taken off. He hadn't been lying, he could flywell. Hovering level with the topmost branches of an oak he called,"Come and get it, Potter!"
Harry grabbed his broom.
"No!" shouted Hermione Granger. "Madam Hooch told us not tomove -- you'll get us all into trouble."
Harry ignored her. Blood was pounding in his ears. He mounted thebroom and kicked hard against the ground and up, up he soared; airrushed through his hair, and his robes whipped out behind him -andin a rush of fierce joy he realized he'd found something he could dowithout being taught -- this was easy, this was wonderful. He pulledhis broomstick up a little to take it even higher, and heard screamsand gasps of girls back on the ground and an admiring whoop from Ron.
He turned his broomstick sharply to face Malfoy in midair. Malfoylooked stunned.
"Give it here," Harry called, "or I'll knock you off thatbroom!" "Oh, yeah?" said Malfoy, trying to sneer, but lookingworried.
Harry knew, somehow, what to do. He leaned forward and graspedthe broom tightly in both hands, and it shot toward Malfay like ajavelin. Malfoy only just got out of the way in time; Harry madea sharp about-face and held the broom steady. A few people belowwere clapping.
"No Crabbe and Goyle up here to save your neck, Malfoy,"Harry called.
The same thought seemed to have struck Malfoy.
"Catch it if you can, then!" he shouted, and he threw the glassball high into the air and streaked back toward the ground.
Harry saw, as though in slow motion, the ball rise up in theair and then start to fall. He leaned forward and pointed hisbroom handle down -- next second he was gathering speed in a steepdive, racing the ball -- wind whistled in his ears, mingled withthe screams of people watching -- he stretched out his hand -- afoot from the ground he caught it, just in time to pull his broomstraight, and he toppled gently onto the grass with the Remembrallclutched safely in his fist.
"HARRY POTTER!"
His heart sank faster than he'd just dived. Professor McGonagallwas running toward them. He got to his feet, trembling.
"Never -- in all my time at Hogwarts --"
Professor McGonagall was almost speechless with shock, and herglasses flashed furiously, "-- how dare you -- might have brokenyour neck --"
"It wasn't his fault, Professor --"
"Be quiet, Miss Patil
"But Malfoy --"
"That's enough, Mr. Weasley. Potter, follow me, now."
Harry caught sight of Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle's triumphantfaces as he left, walking numbly in Professor McGonagall's wake asshe strode toward the castle. He was going to be expelled, he justknew it. He wanted to say something to defend himself, but thereseemed to be something wrong with his voice. Professor McGonagallwas sweeping along without even looking at him; he had to jog tokeep up. Now he'd done it. He hadn't even lasted two weeks. He'dbe packing his bags in ten minutes. What would the Dursleys saywhen he turned up on the doorstep?
Up the front steps, up the marble staircase inside, and stillProfessor McGonagall didn't say a word to him. She wrenched opendoors and marched along corridors with Harry trotting miserablybehind her. Maybe she was taking him to Dumbledore. He thought ofHagrid, expelled but allowed to stay on as gamekeeper. Perhaps hecould be Hagrid's assistant. His stomach twisted as he imaginedit, watching Ron and the others becoming wizards, while he stumpedaround the grounds carrying Hagrid's bag.
Professor McGonagall stopped outside a classroom. She openedthe door and poked her head inside.
"Excuse me, Professor Flitwick, could I borrow Wood fora moment?"
Wood? thought Harry, bewildered; was Wood a cane she was goingto use on him?
But Wood turned out to be a person, a burly fifth-year boy whocame out of Flitwicles class looking confused.
"Follow me, you two," said Professor McGonagall, and theymarched on up the corridor, Wood looking curiously at Harry.
"In here."
Professor McGonagall pointed them into a classroom that was emptyexcept for Peeves, who was busy writing rude words on the blackboard.
"Out, Peeves!" she barked. Peeves threw the chalk into abin, which clanged loudly, and he swooped out cursing. ProfessorMcGonagall slammed the door behind him and turned to face thetwo boys.
"Potter, this is Oliver Wood. Wood -- I've found you a Seeker."
Wood's expression changed from puzzlement to delight.
"Are you serious, Professor?"
"Absolutely," said Professor McGonagall crisply. "The boy'sa natural. I've never seen anything like it. Was that your firsttime on a broomstick, Potter?"
Harry nodded silently. He didn't have a clue what was going on,but he didn't seem to be being expelled, and some of the feelingstarted coming back to his legs.
"He caught that thing in his hand after a fifty-foot dive,"Professor McGonagall told Wood. "Didn't even scratch himself. CharlieWeasley couldn't have done it."
Wood was now looking as though all his dreams had come trueat once.
"Ever seen a game of Quidditch, Potter?" he asked excitedly.
"Wood's captain of the Gryffindor team," Professor McGonagallexplained.
"He's just the build for a Seeker, too," said Wood, now walkingaround Harry and staring at him. "Light -- speedy -- we'll haveto get him a decent broom, Professor -- a Nimbus Two Thousand ora Cleansweep Seven, I'd say."
I shall speak to Professor Dumbledore and see if we can't bendthe first-year rule. Heaven knows, we need a better team than lastyear. Flattened in that last match by Slytherin, I couldn't lookSeverus Snape in the face for weeks...."
Professor McGonagall peered sternly over her glasses at Harry.
"I want to hear you're training hard, Potter, or I may changemy mind about punishing you."
Then she suddenly smiled.
"Your father would have been proud," she said. "He was anexcellent Quidditch player himself."
"You're joking."
It was dinnertime. Harry had just finished telling Ron what hadhappened when he'd left the grounds with Professor McGonagall. Ronhad a piece of steak and kidney pie halfway to his mouth, but he'dforgotten all about it.
"Seeker?" he said. "But first years never -- you must be theyoungest house player in about a century, said Harry, shoveling pieinto his mouth. He felt particularly hungry after the excitementof the afternoon. "Wood told me."
Ron was so amazed, so impressed, he just sat and gaped at Harry.
"I start training next week," said Harry. "Only don't tellanyone, Wood wants to keep it a secret."
Fred and George Weasley now came into the hall, spotted Harry,and hurried over.
"Well done," said George in a low voice. "Wood told us. We'reon the team too -- Beaters."
"I tell you, we're going to win that Quidditch cup for surethis year," said Fred. "We haven't won since Charlie left, butthis year's team is going to be brilliant. You must be good, Harry,Wood was almost skipping when he told us."
"Anyway, we've got to go, Lee Jordan reckons he's found a newsecret passageway out of the school."
"Bet it's that one behind the statue of Gregory the Smarmy thatwe found in our first week. See you."
Fred and George had hardly disappeared when someone far lesswelcome turned up: Malfoy, flanked by Crabbe and Goyle.
"Having a last meal, Potter? When are you getting the trainback to the Muggles?"
"You're a lot braver now that you're back on the ground andyou've got your little friends with you," said Harry coolly. Therewas of course nothing at all little about Crabbe and Goyle, but asthe High Table was full of teachers, neither of them could do morethan crack their knuckles and scowl.
"I'd take you on anytime on my own," said Malfoy. "Tonight,if you want. Wizard's duel. Wands only -- no contact. What's thematter? Never heard of a wizard's duel before, I suppose?"
"Of course he has," said Ron, wheeling around. "I'm his second,who's yours?"
Malfoy looked at Crabbe and Goyle, sizing them up.
"Crabbe," he said. "Midnight all right? We'll meet you in thetrophy room; that's always unlocked."
When Malfoy had gone, Ron and Harry looked at each other. "Whatis a wizard's duel?" said Harry. "And what do you mean, you'remy second?"
"Well, a second's there to take over if you die," said Roncasually, getting started at last on his cold pie. Catching thelook on Harry's face, he added quickly, "But people only diein proper duels, you know, with real wizards. The most you andMalfoy'll be able to do is send sparks at each other. Neither ofyou knows enough magic to do any real damage. I bet he expectedyou to refuse, anyway."
"And what if I wave my wand and nothing happens?"
"Throw it away and punch him on the nose," Ron suggested. "Excuseme."
They both looked up. It was Hermione Granger.
"Can't a person eat in peace in this place?" said Ron.
Hermione ignored him and spoke to Harry.
"I couldn't help overhearing what you and Malfoy were saying --"
"Bet you could," Ron muttered.
"--and you mustn't go wandering around the school at night,think of the points you'll lose Gryffindor if you're caught, andyou're bound to be. It's really very selfish of you."
"And it's really none of your business," said Harry.
"Good-bye," said Ron.
All the same, it wasn't what you'd call the perfect end to theday, Harry thought, as he lay awake much later listening to Deanand Seamus falling asleep (Neville wasn't back from the hospitalwing). Ron had spent all evening giving him advice such as "If hetries to curse you, you'd better dodge it, because I can't rememberhow to block them." There was a very good chance they were going toget caught by Filch or Mrs. Norris, and Harry felt he was pushinghis luck, breaking another school rule today. On the other hand,Malfoys sneering face kept looming up out of the darkness - thiswas his big chance to beat Malfoy face-to-face. He couldn't miss it.
"Half-past eleven," Ron muttered at last, "we'd better go."
They pulled on their bathrobes, picked up their wands, andcrept across the tower room, down the spiral staircase, and intothe Gryffindor common room. A few embers were still glowing in thefireplace, turning all the armchairs into hunched black shadows. Theyhad almost reached the portrait hole when a voice spoke from thechair nearest them, "I can't believe you're going to do this, Harry."
A lamp flickered on. It was Hermione Granger, wearing a pinkbathrobe and a frown.
"You!" said Ron furiously. "Go back to bed!"
"I almost told your brother," Hermione snapped, "Percy --he's a prefect, he'd put a stop to this."
Harry couldn't believe anyone could be so interfering.
"Come on," he said to Ron. He pushed open the portrait of theFat Lady and climbed through the hole.
Hermione wasn't going to give up that easily. She followed Ronthrough the portrait hole, hissing at them like an angry goose.
"Don't you care about Gryffindor, do you only care aboutyourselves, I don't want Slytherin to win the house cup, and you'lllose all the points I got from Professor McGonagall for knowingabout Switching Spells."
"Go away." "All right, but I warned you, you just remember whatI said when you're on the train home tomorrow, you're so --"
But what they were, they didn't find out. Hermione had turned tothe portrait of the Fat Lady to get back inside and found herselffacing an empty painting. The Fat Lady had gone on a nighttimevisit and Hermione was locked out of Gryffindor tower.
"Now what am I going to do?" she asked shrilly.
"That's your problem," said Ron. "We've got to go, we 3 regoing to be late."
They hadn't even reached the end of the corridor when Hermionecaught up with them.
"I'm coming with you," she said.
"You are not."
"D'you think I'm going to stand out here and wait for Filchto catch me? If he finds all three of us I'll tell him the truth,that I was trying to stop you, and you can back me up."
"You've got some nerve --" said Ron loudly.
"Shut up, both of you!" said Harry sharply. I heard something."
It was a sort of snuffling.
"Mrs. Norris?" breathed Ron, squinting through the dark.
It wasn't Mrs. Norris. It was Neville. He was curled up on thefloor, fast asleep, but jerked suddenly awake as they crept nearer.
"Thank goodness you found me! I've been out here for hours,I couldn't remember the new password to get in to bed."
"Keep your voice down, Neville. The password's 'Pig snout'but it won't help you now, the Fat Lady's gone off somewhere."
"How's your arm?" said Harry.
"Fine," said Neville, showing them. "Madam Pomfrey mended itin about a minute."
"Good - well, look, Neville, we've got to be somewhere, we'llsee you later --"
"Don't leave me!" said Neville, scrambling to his feet, "I don'twant to stay here alone, the Bloody Baron's been past twice already."
Ron looked at his watch and then glared furiously at Hermioneand Neville.
"If either of you get us caught, I'll never rest until I'velearned that Curse of the Bogies Quirrell told us about, and usedit on you.
Hermione opened her mouth, perhaps to tell Ron exactly how touse the Curse of the Bogies, but Harry hissed at her to be quietand beckoned them all forward.
They flitted along corridors striped with bars of moonlight fromthe high windows. At every turn Harry expected to run into Filchor Mrs. Norris, but they were lucky. They sped up a staircase tothe third floor and tiptoed toward the trophy room.
Malfoy and Crabbe weren't there yet. The crystal trophy casesglimmered where the moonlight caught them. Cups, shields, plates,and statues winked silver and gold in the darkness. They edgedalong the walls, keeping their eyes on the doors at either endof the room. Harry took out his wand in case Malfoy leapt in andstarted at once. The minutes crept by.
"He's late, maybe he's chickened out," Ron whispered.
Then a noise in the next room made them jump. Harry had only justraised his wand when they heard someone speak -and it wasn't Malfoy.
"Sniff around, my sweet, they might be lurking in a corner."
It was Filch speaking to Mrs. Norris. Horror-struck, Harry wavedmadly at the other three to follow him as quickly as possible; theyscurried silently toward the door, away from Filch's voice. Neville'srobes had barely whipped round the corner when they heard Filchenter the trophy room.
"They're in here somewhere," they heard him mutter, "probablyhiding."
"This way!" Harry mouthed to the others and, petrified, theybegan to creep down a long gallery full of suits of armor. They couldhear Filch getting nearer. Neville suddenly let out a frightenedsqueak and broke into a run -he tripped, grabbed Ron around thewaist, and the pair of them toppled right into a suit of armor.
The clanging and crashing were enough to wake the whole castle.
"RUN!" Harry yelled, and the four of them sprinted down thegallery, not looking back to see whether Filch was following --they swung around the doorpost and galloped down one corridor thenanother, Harry in the lead, without any idea where they were orwhere they were going -- they ripped through a tapestry and foundthemselves in a hidden passageway, hurtled along it and came outnear their Charms classroom, which they knew was miles from thetrophy room.
"I think we've lost him," Harry panted, leaning against thecold wall and wiping his forehead. Neville was bent double, wheezingand spluttering.
I -- told -you," Hermione gasped, clutching at the stitch inher chest, "I -- told -- you."
"We've got to get back to Gryffindor tower," said Ron, "quicklyas possible."
"Malfoy tricked you," Hermione said to Harry. "You realize that,don't you? He was never going to meet you -- Filch knew someonewas going to be in the trophy room, Malfoy must have tipped him off."
Harry thought she was probably right, but he wasn't going totell her that.
"Let's go."
It wasn't going to be that simple. They hadn't gone more thana dozen paces when a doorknob rattled and something came shootingout of a classroom in front of them.
It was Peeves. He caught sight of them and gave a squealof delight.
"Shut up, Peeves -- please -- you'll get us thrown out."
Peeves cackled.
"Wandering around at midnight, Ickle Firsties? Tut, tut,tut. Naughty, naughty, you'll get caughty."
"Not if you don't give us away, Peeves, please."
"Should tell Filch, I should," said Peeves in a saintly voice,but his eyes glittered wickedly. "It's for your own good, you know."
"Get out of the way," snapped Ron, taking a swipe at Peevesthis was a big mistake.
"STUDENTS OUT OF BED!" Peeves bellowed, "STUDENTS OUT OF BEDDOWN THE CHARMS CORRIDOR"
Ducking under Peeves, they ran for their lives, right to the endof the corridor where they slammed into a door -- and it was locked.
"This is it!" Ron moaned, as they pushed helplessly at the door,"We're done for! This is the end!" They could hear footsteps,Filch running as fast as he could toward Peeves's shouts.
"Oh, move over," Hermione snarled. She grabbed Harry's wand,tapped the lock, and whispered, 'Alohomora!"
The lock clicked and the door swung open -- they piled throughit, shut it quickly, and pressed their ears against it, listening.
"Which way did they go, Peeves?" Filch was saying. "Quick,tell me."
"Say 'please."'
"Don't mess with me, Peeves, now where did they go?"
"Shan't say nothing if you don't say please," said Peeves inhis annoying singsong voice.
"All right -please."
"NOTHING! Ha haaa! Told you I wouldn't say nothing if youdidn't say please! Ha ha! Haaaaaa!" And they heard the sound ofPeeves whooshing away and Filch cursing in rage.
"He thinks this door is locked," Harry whispered. "I thinkwe'll be okay -- get off, Neville!" For Neville had been tuggingon the sleeve of Harry's bathrobe for the last minute. "What?"
Harry turned around -- and saw, quite clearly, what. For amoment, he was sure he'd walked into a nightmare -- this was toomuch, on top of everything that had happened so far.
They weren't in a room, as he had supposed. They were in acorridor. The forbidden corridor on the third floor. And now theyknew why it was forbidden.
They were looking straight into the eyes of a monstrous dog,a dog that filled the whole space between ceiling and floor. It hadthree heads. Three pairs of rolling, mad eyes; three noses, twitching
and quivering in their direction; three drooling mouths, salivahanging in slippery ropes from yellowish fangs.
It was standing quite still, all six eyes staring at them,and Harry knew that the only reason they weren't already deadwas that their sudden appearance had taken it by surprise, but itwas quickly getting over that, there was no mistaking what thosethunderous growls meant.
Harry groped for the doorknob -- between Filch and death,he'd take Filch.
They fell backward -- Harry slammed the door shut, and they ran,they almost flew, back down the corridor. Filch must have hurriedoff to look for them somewhere else, because they didn't see himanywhere, but they hardly cared -- all they wanted to do was put asmuch space as possible between them and that monster. They didn'tstop running until they reached the portrait of the Fat Lady onthe seventh floor.
"Where on earth have you all been?" she asked, looking attheir bathrobes hanging off their shoulders and their flushed,sweaty faces.
"Never mind that -- pig snout, pig snout," panted Harry, andthe portrait swung forward. They scrambled into the common roomand collapsed, trembling, into armchairs.
It was a while before any of them said anything. Neville,indeed, looked as if he'd never speak again.
"What do they think they're doing, keeping a thing like thatlocked up in a school?" said Ron finally. "If any dog needs exercise,that one does."
Hermione had got both her breath and her bad temper backagain. "You don't use your eyes, any of you, do you?" shesnapped. "Didn't you see what it was standing on.
"The floor?" Harry suggested. "I wasn't looking at its feet,I was too busy with its heads."
"No, not the floor. It was standing on a trapdoor. It's obviouslyguarding something."
She stood up, glaring at them.
I hope you're pleased with yourselves. We could all have beenkilled -- or worse, expelled. Now, if you don't mind, I'm goingto bed."
Ron stared after her, his mouth open.
"No, we don't mind," he said. "You'd think we dragged her along,wouldn't you.
But Hermione had given Harry something else to think about ashe climbed back into bed. The dog was guarding something.... Whathad Hagrid said? Gringotts was the safest place in the world forsomething you wanted to hide -- except perhaps Hogwarts.
It looked as though Harry had found out where the grubby littiepackage from vault seven hundred and thirteen was.
CHAPTER TEN
HALLOWEEN
Malfoy couldn't believe his eyes when he saw that Harry and Ronwere still at Hogwarts the next day, looking tired but perfectlycheerful. Indeed, by the next morning Harry and Ron thought thatmeeting the three-headed dog had been an excellent adventure, andthey were quite keen to have another one. In the meantime, Harryfilled Ron in about the package that seemed to have been movedfrom Gringotts to Hogwarts, and they spent a lot of time wonderingwhat could possibly need such heavy protection. "It's either reallyvaluable or really dangerous," said Ron. "Or both," said Harry.
But as all they knew for sure about the mysterious object wasthat it was about two inches long, they didn't have much chance ofguessing what it was without further clues.
Neither Neville nor Hermione showed the slightest interest inwhat lay underneath the dog and the trapdoor. All Neville caredabout was never going near the dog again.
Hermione was now refusing to speak to Harry and Ron, but she wassuch a bossy know-it-all that they saw this as an added bonus. Allthey really wanted now was a way of getting back at Malfoy, and totheir great delight, just such a thing arrived in the mail abouta week later.
As the owls flooded into the Great Hall as usual, everyone'sattention was caught at once by a long, thin package carried bysix large screech owls. Harry was just as interested as everyoneelse to see what was in this large parcel, and was amazed when theowls soared down and dropped it right in front of him, knockinghis bacon to the floor. They had hardly fluttered out of the waywhen another owl dropped a letter on top of the parcel.
Harry ripped open the letter first, which was lucky, becauseit said:
DO NOT OPEN THE PARCEL AT THE TABLE.
It contains your new Nimbus Two Thousand, but I don't wanteverybody knowing you've got a broomstick or they'll all wantone. Oliver Wood will meet you tonight on the Quidditch field atseven o'clock for your first training session.
Professor McGonagall
Harry had difficulty hiding his glee as he handed the note toRon to read.
"A Nimbus Two Thousand!" Ron moaned enviously. "I've never eventouched one."
They left the hall quickly, wanting to unwrap the broomstick inprivate before their first class, but halfway across the entrancehall they found the way upstairs barred by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoyseized the package from Harry and felt it.
"That's a broomstick," he said, throwing it back to Harry witha mixture of jealousy and spite on his face. "You'll be in for itthis time, Potter, first years aren't allowed them."
Ron couldn't resist it.
"It's not any old broomstick," he said, "it's a Nimbus TwoThousand. What did you say you've got at home, Malfoy, a Comet TwoSixty?" Ron grinned at Harry. "Comets look flashy, but they're notin the same league as the Nimbus."
"What would you know about it, Weasley, you couldn't afford halfthe handle," Malfoy snapped back. "I suppose you and your brothershave to save up twig by twig."
Before Ron could answer, Professor Flitwick appeared atMalfoy's elbow.
"Not arguing, I hope, boys?" he squeaked.
"Potter's been sent a broomstick, Professor," said Malfoyquickly.
"Yes, yes, that's right," said Professor Flitwick, beamingat Harry. "Professor McGonagall told me all about the specialcircumstances, Potter. And what model is it?"
"A Nimbus Two Thousand, sit," said Harry, fighting not to laughat the look of horror on Malfoy's face. "And it's really thanks toMalfoy here that I've got it," he added.
Harry and Ron headed upstairs, smothering their laughter atMalfoy's obvious rage and confusion. "Well, it's true," Harrychortled as they reached the top of the marble staircase, "If hehadn't stolen Neville's Remembrall I wouln't be on the team...."
"So I suppose you think that's a reward for breaking rules?" camean angry voice from just behind them. Hermione was stomping up thestairs, looking disapprovingly at the package in Harry's hand.
"I thought you weren't speaking to us?" said Harry.
"Yes, don't stop now," said Ron, "it's doing us so much good."
Hermione marched away with her nose in the air.
Harry had a lot of trouble keeping his mind on his lessons thatday. It kept wandering up to the dormitory where his new broomstickwas lying under his bed, or straying off to the Quidditch fieldwhere he'd be learning to play that night. He bolted his dinnerthat evening without noticing what he was eating, and then rushedupstairs with Ron to unwrap the Nimbus Two Thousand at last.
"Wow," Ron sighed, as the broomstick rolled onto Harry'sbedspread.
Even Harry, who knew nothing about the different brooms, thoughtit looked wonderful. Sleek and shiny, with a mahogany handle, ithad a long tail of neat, straight twigs and Nimbus Two Thousandwritten in gold near the top.
As seven o'clock drew nearer, Harry left the castle and set offin the dusk toward the Quidditch field. Held never been inside thestadium before. Hundreds of seats were raised in stands around thefield so that the spectators were high enough to see what was goingon. At either end of the field were three golden poles with hoopson the end. They reminded Harry of the little plastic sticks Muggle
children blew bubbles through, except that they were fiftyfeet high.
Too eager to fly again to wait for Wood, Harry mounted hisbroomstick and kicked off from the ground. What a feeling -- heswooped in and out of the goal posts and then sped up and down thefield. The Nimbus Two Thousand turned wherever he wanted at hislightest touch.
"Hey, Potter, come down!'
Oliver Wood had arrived. fie was carrying a large wooden crateunder his arm. Harry landed next to him.
"Very nice," said Wood, his eyes glinting. "I see what McGonagallmeant... you really are a natural. I'm just going to teach youthe rules this evening, then you'll be joining team practice threetimes a week."
He opened the crate. Inside were four different-sized balls.
"Right," said Wood. "Now, Quidditch is easy enough to understand,even if it's not too easy to play. There are seven players on eachside. Three of them are called Chasers."
"Three Chasers," Harry repeated, as Wood took out a bright redball about the size of a soccer ball.
"This ball's called the Quaffle," said Wood. "The Chasersthrow the Quaffle to each other and try and get it through one ofthe hoops to score a goal. Ten points every time the Quaffle goesthrough one of the hoops. Follow me?"
"The Chasers throw the Quaffle and put it through the hoopsto score," Harry recited. "So -- that's sort of like basketball onbroomsticks with six hoops, isn't it?"
"What's basketball?" said Wood curiously. "Never mind," saidHarry quickly.
"Now, there's another player on each side who's called theKeeper -I'm Keeper for Gryffindor. I have to fly around our hoopsand stop the other team from scoring."
"Three Chasers, one Keeper," said Harry, who was determinedto remember it all. "And they play with the Quaffle. Okay, gotthat. So what are they for?" He pointed at the three balls leftinside the box.
"I'll show you now," said Wood. "Take this."
He handed Harry a small club, a bit like a short baseball bat.
"I'm going to show you what the Bludgers do," Wood said. "Thesetwo are the Bludgers."
He showed Harry two identical balls, jet black and slightlysmaller than the red Quaffle. Harry noticed that they seemed to bestraining to escape the straps holding them inside the box.
"Stand back," Wood warned Harry. He bent down and freed one ofthe Bludgers.
At once, the black ball rose high in the air and then peltedstraight at Harry's face. Harry swung at it with the bat to stop itfrom breaking his nose, and sent it zigzagging away into the air --it zoomed around their heads and then shot at Wood, who dived ontop of it and managed to pin it to the ground.
"See?" Wood panted, forcing the struggling Bludger back into thecrate and strapping it down safely. "The Bludgers rocket around,trying to knock players off their brooms. That's why you have twoBeaters on each team -- the Weasley twins are ours -- it's theirjob to protect their side from the Bludgers and try and knock themtoward the other team. So -- think you've got all that?"
"Three Chasers try and score with the Quaffle; the Keeper guardsthe goal posts; the Beaters keep the Bludgers away from their team,"Harry reeled off.
"Very good," said Wood.
"Er -- have the Bludgers ever killed anyone?" Harry asked,hoping he sounded offhand.
"Never at Hogwarts. We've had a couple of broken jaws butnothing worse than that. Now, the last member of the team is the
Seeker. That's you. And you don't have to worry about theQuaffle or the Bludgers unless they crack my head open."
"Don't worry, the Weasleys are more than a match for the Bludgers-- I mean, they're like a pair of human Bludgers themselves."
Wood reached into the crate and took out the fourth and lastball. Compared with the Quaffle and the Bludgers, it was tiny,about the size of a large walnut. It was bright gold and had littlefluttering silver wings.
"This," said Wood, "is the Golden Snitch, and it's the mostimportant ball of the lot. It's very hard to catch because it'sso fast and difficult to see. It's the Seeker's job to catchit. You've got to weave in and out of the Chasers, Beaters,Bludgers, and Quaffle to get it before the other team's Seeker,because whichever Seeker catches the Snitch wins his team an extrahundred and fifty points, so they
nearly always win. That's why Seekers get fouled so much. A gameof Quidditch only ends when the Snitch is caught, so it can go onfor ages -- I think the record is three months, they had to keepbringing on substitutes so the players could get some sleep. "Well,that's it -- any questions?"
Harry shook his head. He understood what he had to do all right,it was doing it that was going to be the problem.
"We won't practice with the Snitch yet," said Wood, carefullyshutting it back inside the crate, "it's too dark, we might loseit. Let's try you out with a few of these."
He pulled a bag of ordinary golf balls out of his pocket and afew minutes later, he and Harry were up in the air, Wood throwing thegolf balls as hard as he could in every direction for Harry to catch.
Harry didn't miss a single one, and Wood was delighted. Afterhalf an hour, night had really fallen and they couldn't carry on.
"That Quidditch cup'll have our name on it this year," saidWood happily as they trudged back up to the castle. "I wouldn'tbe surprised if you turn out better than Charlie Weasley, and hecould have played for England if he hadn't gone off chasing dragons."
Perhaps it was because he was now so busy, what with Quidditchpractice three evenings a week on top of all his homework, butHarry could hardly believe it when he realized that he'd alreadybeen at Hogwarts two months. The castle felt more like home thanPrivet Drive ever had. His lessons, too, were becoming more andmore interesting now that they had mastered the basics.
On Halloween morning they woke to the delicious smell of bakingpumpkin wafting through the corridors. Even better, ProfessorFlitwick announced in Charms that he thought they were readyto start making objects fly, something they had all been dyingto try since they'd seen him make Neville's toad zoom aroundthe classroom. Professor Flitwick put the class into pairs topractice. Harry's partner was Seamus Finnigan (which was a relief,because Neville had been trying to catch his eye). Ron, however,was to be working with Hermione Granger. It was hard to tell whetherRon or Hermione was angrier about this. She hadn't spoken to eitherof them since the day Harry's broomstick had arrived.
"Now, don't forget that nice wrist movement we've beenpracticing!" squeaked Professor Flitwick, perched on top of hispile of books as usual. "Swish and flick, remember, swish andflick. And saying the magic words properly is very important,too -- never forget Wizard Baruffio, who said 's' instead of 'f'and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his chest."
It was very difficult. Harry and Seamus swished and flicked,but the feather they were supposed to be sending skyward just layon the desktop. Seamus got so impatient that he prodded it withhis wand and set fire to it -- Harry had to put it out with his hat.
Ron, at the next table, wasn't having much more luck.
"Wingardium Leviosa!" he shouted, waving his long arms likea windmill.
"You're saying it wrong," Harry heard Hermione snap. "It'sWing-gar-dium Levi-o-sa, make the 'gar' nice and long."
"You do it, then, if you're so clever," Ron snarled.
Hermione rolled up the sleeves of her gown, flicked her wand,and said, "Wingardium Leviosa!"
Their feather rose off the desk and hovered about four feetabove their heads.
"Oh, well done!" cried Professor Flitwick, clapping. "Everyonesee here, Miss Granger's done it!"
Ron was in a very bad mood by the end of the class. "It's nowonder no one can stand her," he said to Harry as they pushed theirway into the crowded corridor, "she's a nightmare, honestly. "
Someone knocked into Harry as they hurried past him. It wasHermione. Harry caught a glimpse of her face -- and was startledto see that she was in tears.
"I think she heard you."
"So?" said Ron, but he looked a bit uncomfortable. "She must'venoticed she's got no friends."
Hermione didn't turn up for the next class and wasn't seen allafternoon. On their way down to the Great Hall for the Halloweenfeast, Harry and Ron overheard Parvati Patil telling her friendLavender that Hermione was crying in the girls' bathroom and wantedto be left alone. Ron looked still more awkward at this, but amoment later they had entered the Great Hall, where the Halloweendecorations put Hermione out of their minds.
A thousand live bats fluttered from the walls and ceiling whilea thousand more swooped over the tables in low black clouds, makingthe candles in the pumpkins stutter. The feast appeared suddenlyon the golden plates, as it had at the start-of-term banquet.
Harry was just helping himself to a baked potato when ProfessorQuirrell came sprinting into the hall, his turban askew and terror onhis face. Everyone stared as he reached Professor Dumbledore's chair,slumped against the table, and gasped, "Troll -- in the dungeons --thought you ought to know."
He then sank to the floor in a dead faint.
There was an uproar. It took several purple firecrackersexploding from the end of Professor Dumbledore's wand to bringsilence.
"Prefects," he rumbled, "lead your Houses back to the dormitoriesimmediately!"
Percy was in his element.
"Follow me! Stick together, first years! No need to fear thetroll if you follow my orders! Stay close behind me, now. Make way,first years coming through! Excuse me, I'm a prefect!"
"How could a troll get in?" Harry asked as they climbed thestairs.
"Don't ask me, they're supposed to be really stupid," saidRon. "Maybe Peeves let it in for a Halloween joke."
They passed different groups of people hurrying in differentdirections. As they jostled their way through a crowd of confusedHufflepuffs, Harry suddenly grabbed Ron's arm.
"I've just thought -- Hermione."
"What about her?"
"She doesn't know about the troll."
Ron bit his lip.
"Oh, all right," he snapped. "But Percy'd better not see us."
Ducking down, they joined the Hufflepuffs going the other way,slipped down a deserted side corridor, and hurried off toward thegirls' bathroom. They had just turned the corner when they heardquick footsteps behind them.
"Percy!" hissed Ron, pulling Harry behind a large stone griffin.
Peering around it, however, they saw not Percy but Snape. Hecrossed the corridor and disappeared from view.
"What's he doing?" Harry whispered. "Why isn't he down in thedungeons with the rest of the teachers?"
"Search me."
Quietly as possible, they crept along the next corridor afterSnape's fading footsteps.
"He's heading for the third floor," Harry said, but Ron heldup his hand.
"Can you smell something?"
Harry sniffed and a foul stench reached his nostrils, a mixtureof old socks and the kind of public toilet no one seems to clean.
And then they heard it -- a low grunting, and the shufflingfootfalls of gigantic feet. Ron pointed -- at the end of a passageto the left, something huge was moving toward them. They shrankinto the shadows and watched as it emerged into a patch of moonlight.
It was a horrible sight. Twelve feet tall, its skin was a dull,granite gray, its great lumpy body like a boulder with its smallbald head perched on top like a coconut. It had short legs thickas tree trunks with flat, horny feet. The smell coming from it wasincredible. It was holding a huge wooden club, which dragged alongthe floor because its arms were so long.
The troll stopped next to a doorway and peered inside. It waggledits long ears, making up its tiny mind, then slouched slowly intothe room.
"The keys in the lock," Harry muttered. "We could lock it in."
"Good idea," said Ron nervously.
They edged toward the open door, mouths dry, praying the trollwasn't about to come out of it. With one great leap, Harry managedto grab the key, slam the door, and lock it.
'Yes!"
Flushed with their victory, they started to run back up thepassage, but as they reached the corner they heard something thatmade their hearts stop -- a high, petrified scream -- and it wascoming from the chamber they'd just chained up.
"Oh, no," said Ron, pale as the Bloody Baron.
"It's the girls' bathroom!" Harry gasped.
"Hermione!" they said together.
It was the last thing they wanted to do, but what choice didthey have? Wheeling around, they sprinted back to the door andturned the key, fumbling in their panic. Harry pulled the door openand they ran inside.
Hermione Granger was shrinking against the wall opposite,looking as if she was about to faint. The troll was advancing on her,knocking the sinks off the walls as it went.
"Confuse it!" Harry said desperately to Ron, and, seizing a tap,he threw it as hard as he could against the wall.
The troll stopped a few feet from Hermione. It lumbered around,blinking stupidly, to see what had made the noise. Its mean littleeyes saw Harry. It hesitated, then made for him instead, liftingits club as it went.
"Oy, pea-brain!" yelled Ron from the other side of the chamber,and he threw a metal pipe at it. The troll didn't even seem tonotice the pipe hitting its shoulder, but it heard the yell andpaused again, turning its ugly snout toward Ron instead, givingHarry time to run around it.
"Come on, run, run!" Harry yelled at Hermione, trying to pullher toward the door, but she couldn't move, she was still flatagainst the wall, her mouth open with terror.
The shouting and the echoes seemed to be driving the trollberserk. It roared again and started toward Ron, who was nearestand had no way to escape.
Harry then did something that was both very brave and verystupid: He took a great running jump and managed to fasten his armsaround the troll's neck from behind. The troll couldn't feel Harryhanging there, but even a troll will notice if you stick a long bitof wood up its nose, and Harry's wand had still been in his hand whenhe'd jumped -- it had gone straight up one of the troll's nostrils.
Howling with pain, the troll twisted and flailed its club,with Harry clinging on for dear life; any second, the troll wasgoing to rip him off or catch him a terrible blow with the club.
Hermione had sunk to the floor in fright; Ron pulled out hisown wand -- not knowing what he was going to do he heard himselfcry the first spell that came into his head: "Wingardium Leviosa!"
The club flew suddenly out of the troll's hand, rose high, highup into the air, turned slowly over -- and dropped, with a sickeningcrack, onto its owner's head. The troll swayed on the spot and thenfell flat on its face, with a thud that made the whole room tremble.
Harry got to his feet. He was shaking and out of breath. Ronwas standing there with his wand still raised, staring at what hehad done.
It was Hermione who spoke first.
"Is it -- dead?"
I don't think so," said Harry, I think it's just been knockedout."
He bent down and pulled his wand out of the troll's nose. Itwas covered in what looked like lumpy gray glue.
"Urgh -- troll boogers."
He wiped it on the troll's trousers.
A sudden slamming and loud footsteps made the three of themlook up. They hadn't realized what a racket they had been making,but of course, someone downstairs must have heard the crashes andthe troll's roars. A moment later, Professor McGonagall had comebursting into the room, closely followed by Snape, with Quirrellbringing up the rear. Quirrell took one look at the troll, let out afaint whimper, and sat quickly down on a toilet, clutching his heart.
Snape bent over the troll. Professor McGonagall was looking atRon and Harry. Harry had never seen her look so angry. Her lipswere white. Hopes of winning fifty points for Gryffindor fadedquickly from Harry's mind.
"What on earth were you thinking of?" said Professor McGonagall,with cold fury in her voice. Harry looked at Ron, who was stillstanding with his wand in the air. "You're lucky you weren'tkilled. Why aren't you in your dormitory?"
Snape gave Harry a swift, piercing look. Harry looked at thefloor. He wished Ron would put his wand down.
Then a small voice came out of the shadows.
"Please, Professor McGonagall -- they were looking for me."
"Miss Granger!"
Hermione had managed to get to her feet at last.
I went looking for the troll because I -- I thought I could dealwith it on my own -- you know, because I've read all about them."
Ron dropped his wand. Hermione Granger, telling a downright lieto a teacher? "If they hadn't found me, I'd be dead now. Harry stuckhis wand up its nose and Ron knocked it out with its own club. Theydidn't have time to come and fetch anyone. It was about to finishme off when they arrived."
Harry and Ron tried to look as though this story wasn't newto them.
"Well -- in that case..." said Professor McGonagall, staringat the three of them, "Miss Granger, you foolish girl, how couldyou think of tackling a mountain troll on your own?"
Hermione hung her head. Harry was speechless. Hermione was thelast person to do anything against the rules, and here she was,pretending she had, to get them out of trouble. It was as if Snapehad started handing out sweets.
"Miss Granger, five points will be taken from Gryffindorfor this," said Professor McGonagall. "I'm very disappointed inyou. If you're not hurt at all, you'd better get off to Gryffindortower. Students are finishing the feast in their houses."
Hermione left.
Professor McGonagall turned to Harry and Ron.
"Well, I still say you were lucky, but not many first yearscould have taken on a full-grown mountain troll. You each winGryffindor five points. Professor Dumbledore will be informed ofthis. You may go."
They hurried out of the chamber and didn't speak at all untilthey had climbed two floors up. It was a relief to be away fromthe smell of the troll, quite apart from anything else.
"We should have gotten more than ten points," Ron grumbled.
"Five, you mean, once she's taken off Hermione's."
"Good of her to get us out of trouble like that," Ronadmitted. "Mind you, we did save her."
"She might not have needed saving if we hadn't locked the thingin with her," Harry reminded him.
They had reached the portrait of the Fat Lady.
"Pig snout," they said and entered.
The common room was packed and noisy. Everyone was eating thefood that had been sent up. Hermione, however, stood alone by thedoor, waiting for them. There was a very embarrassed pause. Then,none of them looking at each other, they all said "Thanks," andhurried off to get plates.
But from that moment on, Hermione Granger became theirfriend. There are some things you can't share without ending upliking each other, and knocking out a twelve-foot mountain trollis one of them.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
QUIDDITCH
As they entered November, the weather turned very cold. Themountains around the school became icy gray and the lake like chilledsteel. Every morning the ground was covered in frost. Hagrid couldbe seen from the upstairs windows defrosting broomsticks on theQuidditch field, bundled up in a long moleskin overcoat, rabbitfur gloves, and enormous beaverskin boots.
The Quidditch season had begun. On Saturday, Harry wouldbe playing in his first match after weeks of training: Gryffindorversus Slytherin. If Gryffindor won, they would move up into secondplace in the house championship.
Hardly anyone had seen Harry play because Wood had decided that,as their secret weapon, Harry should be kept, well, secret. Butthe news that he was playing Seeker had leaked out somehow, andHarry didn't know which was worse -- people telling him he'd bebrilliant or people telling him they'd be running around underneathhim holding a mattress.
It was really lucky that Harry now had Hermlone as a friend. Hedidn't know how he'd have gotten through all his homework withouther, what with all the last-minute Quidditch practice Wood wasmaking them do. She had also tent him Quidditch Through the Ages,which turned out to be a very interesting read.
Harry learned that there were seven hundred ways of committinga Quidditch foul and that all of them had happened during a WorldCup match in 1473; that Seekers were usually the smallest andfastest players, and that most serious Quidditch accidents seemed tohappen to them; that although people rarely died playing Quidditch,referees had been known to vanish and turn up months later in theSahara Desert.
Hermione had become a bit more relaxed about breaking rulessince Harry and Ron had saved her from the mountain troll, and shewas much nicer for it. The day before Harry's first Quidditch matchthe three of them were out in the freezing courtyard during break,and she had conjured them up a bright blue fire that could becarried around in a jam jar. They were standing with their backsto it, getting warm, when Snape crossed the yard. Harry noticedat once that Snape was limping. Harry, Ron, and Hermione movedcloser together to block the fire from view; they were sure itwouldn't be allowed. Unfortunately, something about their guiltyfaces caught Snape's eye. He limped over. He hadn't seen the fire,but he seemed to be looking for a reason to tell them off anyway.
"What's that you've got there, Potter?"
It was Quidditch Through the Ages. Harry showed him.
"Library books are not to be taken outside the school," saidSnape. "Give it to me. Five points from Gryffindor."
"He's just made that rule up," Harry muttered angrily as Snapelimped away. "Wonder what's wrong with his leg?"
"Dunno, but I hope it's really hurting him," said Ron bitterly.
The Gryffindor common room was very noisy that evening. Harry,Ron, and Hermione sat together next to a window. Hermione waschecking Harry and Ron's Charms homework for them. She would neverlet them copy ("How will you learn?"), but by asking her to readit through, they got the right answers anyway.
Harry felt restless. He wanted Quidditch Through the Ages back,to take his mind off his nerves about tomorrow. Why should he beafraid of Snape? Getting up, he told Ron and Hermione he was goingto ask Snape if he could have it.
"Better you than me," they said together, but Harry had an ideathat Snape wouldn't refuse if there were other teachers listening.
He made his way down to the staffroom and knocked. There wasno answer. He knocked again. Nothing.
Perhaps Snape had left the book in there? It was worth a try. Hepushed the door ajar and peered inside -- and a horrible scene methis eyes.
Snape and Filch were inside, alone. Snape was holding his robesabove his knees. One of his legs was bloody and mangled. Filch washanding Snape bandages.
"Blasted thing*," Snape was saying. "How are you supposed tokeep your eyes on all three heads at once?"
Harry tried to shut the door quietly, but --
"POTTER!"
Snape's face was twisted with fury as he dropped his robesquickly to hide his leg. Harry gulped.
"I just wondered if I could have my book back."
"GET OUT! OUT!"
Harry left, before Snape could take any more points fromGryffindor. He sprinted back upstairs.
"Did you get it?" Ron asked as Harry joined them. "What'sthe matter?"
In a low whisper, Harry told them what he'd seen.
"You know what this means?" he finished breathlessly. "He triedto get past that three-headed dog at Halloween! That's where he wasgoing when we saw him -- he's after whatever it's guarding! And Idbet my broomstick he let that troll in, to make a diversion!"
Hermione's eyes were wide.
"No -- he wouldn't, she said. "I know he's not very nice,but he wouldn't try and steal something Dumbledore was keeping safe."
"Honestly, Hermione, you think all teachers are saints orsomething," snapped Ron. "I'm with Harry. I wouldn't put anythingpast Snape. But what's he after? What's that dog guarding?"
Harry went to bed with his head buzzing with the samequestion. Neville was snoring loudly, but Harry couldn't sleep. Hetried to empty his mind -- he needed to sleep, he had to, he hadhis first Quidditch match in a few hours -- but the expression onSnape's face when Harry had seen his leg wasn't easy to forget.
The next morning dawned very bright and cold. The Great Hallwas full of the delicious smell of fried sausages and the cheerful chatter of everyone looking forward to a good Quidditch match.
"You've got to eat some breakfast."
"I don't want anything."
"Just a bit of toast," wheedled Hermione.
"I'm not hungry."
Harry felt terrible. In an hour's time he'd be walking ontothe field.
"Harry, you need your strength," said Seamus Finnigan. "Seekersare always the ones who get clobbered by the other team."
"Thanks, Seamus," said Harry, watching Seamus pile ketchup onhis sausages.
By eleven o'clock the whole school seemed to be out in the standsaround the Quidditch pitch. Many students had binoculars. The seatsmight be raised high in the air, but it was still difficult to seewhat was going on sometimes.
Ron and Hermione joined Neville, Seamus, and Dean the West Hamfan up in the top row. As a surprise for Harry, they had painteda large banner on one of the sheets Scabbers had ruined. It saidPotter for President, and Dean, who was good at drawing, had donea large Gryffindor lion underneath. Then Hermione had performed atricky little charm so that the paint flashed different colors.
Meanwhile, in the locker room, Harry and the rest of the teamwere changing into their scarlet Quidditch robes (Slytherin wouldbe playing in green).
Wood cleared his throat for silence.
"Okay, men," he said.
"And women," said Chaser Angelina Johnson.
"And women," Wood agreed. "This is it."
"The big one," said Fred Weasley.
"The one we've all been waiting for," said George.
"We know Oliver's speech by heart," Fred told Harry, "we wereon the team last year."
"Shut up, you two," said Wood. "This is the best teamGryffindor's had in years. We're going to win. I know it."
He glared at them all as if to say, "Or else."
"Right. It's time. Good luck, all of you."
Harry followed Fred and George out of the locker room and,hoping his knees weren't going to give way, walked onto the fieldto loud cheers.
Madam Hooch was refereeing. She stood in the middle of thefield waiting for the two teams, her broom in her hand.
"Now, I want a nice fair game, all of you," she said, once theywere all gathered around her. Harry noticed that she seemed tobe speaking particularly to the Slytherin Captain, Marcus Flint,a sixth year. Harry thought Flint looked as if he had some trollblood in him. Out of the corner of his eye he saw the flutteringbanner high above, flashing Potter for President over the crowd. Hisheart skipped. He felt braver.
"Mount your brooms, please."
Harry clambered onto his Nimbus Two Thousand.
Madam Hooch gave a loud blast on her silver whistle.
Fifteen brooms rose up, high, high into the air. They wereoff. "And the Quaffle is taken immediately by Angelina Johnson ofGryffindor -- what an excellent Chaser that girl is, and ratherattractive, too --"
"JORDAN!"
"Sorry, Professor."
The Weasley twins' friend, Lee Jordan, was doing the commentaryfor the match, closely watched by Professor McGonagall.
"And she's really belting along up there, a neat pass to AliciaSpinnet, a good find of Oliver Wood's, last year only a reserve --back to Johnson and -- no, the Slytherins have taken the Quaffle,Slytherin Captain Marcus Flint gains the Quaffle and off he goes --Flint flying like an eagle up there -- he's going to sc- no, stoppedby an excellent move by Gryffindor Keeper Wood and the Gryffindorstake the Quaffle -- that's Chaser Katie Bell of Gryffindor there,nice dive around Flint, off up the field and -- OUCH -- that musthave hurt, hit in the back of the head by a Bludger -- Quaffle takenby the Slytherins -- that's Adrian Pucey speeding off toward the goalposts, but he's blocked by a second Bludger -- sent his way by Fredor George Weasley, can't tell which -- nice play by the GryffindorBeater, anyway, and Johnson back in possession of the Quaffle, aclear field ahead and off she goes -- she's really flying -- dodgesa speeding Bludger -- the goal posts are ahead -- come on, now,Angelina -- Keeper Bletchley dives -- misses -- GRYFFINDORS SCORE!"
Gryffindor cheers filled the cold air, with howls and moansfrom the Slytherins.
"Budge up there, move along."
"Hagrid!"
Ron and Hermione squeezed together to give Hagrid enough spaceto join them.
"Bin watchin' from me hut," said Hagrid, patting a large pairof binoculars around his neck, "But it isn't the same as bein'in the crowd. No sign of the Snitch yet, eh?"
"Nope," said Ron. "Harry hasn't had much to do yet."
"Kept outta trouble, though, that's somethin'," said Hagrid,raising his binoculars and peering skyward at the speck thatwas Harry.
Way up above them, Harry was gliding over the game, squintingabout for some sign of the Snitch. This was part of his and Wood'sgame plan.
"Keep out of the way until you catch sight of the Snitch,"Wood had said. "We don't want you attacked before you have to be."
When Angelina had scored, Harry had done a couple ofloop-the-loops to let off his feelings. Now he was back to staringaround for the Snitch. Once he caught sight of a flash of gold, butit was just a reflection from one of the Weasleys' wristwatches,and once a Bludger decided to come pelting his way, more like acannonball than anything, but Harry dodged it and Fred Weasley camechasing after it.
"All right there, Harry?" he had time to yell, as he beat theBludger furiously toward Marcus Flint.
"Slytherin in possession," Lee Jordan was saying, "Chaser Puceyducks two Bludgers, two Weasleys, and Chaser Bell, and speeds towardthe -- wait a moment -- was that the Snitch?"
A murmur ran through the crowd as Adrian Pucey dropped theQuaffle, too busy looking over his shoulder at the flash of goldthat had passed his left ear.
Harry saw it. In a great rush of excitement he dived downwardafter the streak of gold. Slytherin Seeker Terence Higgs had seen it,too. Neck and neck they hurtled toward the Snitch -all the Chasersseemed to have forgotten what they were supposed to be doing asthey hung in midair to watch.
Harry was faster than Higgs -- he could see the little roundball, wings fluttering, darting up ahead - - he put on an extraspurt of speed --
WHAM! A roar of rage echoed from the Gryffindors below --Marcus Flint had blocked Harry on purpose, and Harry's broom spunoff course, Harry holding on for dear life.
"Foul!" screamed the Gryffindors.
Madam Hooch spoke angrily to Flint and then ordered a freeshot at the goal posts for Gryffindor. But in all the confusion,of course, the Golden Snitch had disappeared from sight again.
Down in the stands, Dean Thomas was yelling, "Send him off,ref! Red card!"
"What are you talking about, Dean?" said Ron.
"Red card!" said Dean furiously. "In soccer you get shown thered card and you're out of the game!"
"But this isn't soccer, Dean," Ron reminded him.
Hagrid, however, was on Dean's side.
"They oughta change the rules. Flint coulda knocked Harry outtathe air."
Lee Jordan was finding it difficult not to take sides.
"So -- after that obvious and disgusting bit of cheating
"Jordan!" growled Professor McGonagall.
"I mean, after that open and revolting foul
'Jordan, I'm warning you --"
"All right, all right. Flint nearly kills the Gryffindor Seeker,which could happen to anyone, I'm sure, so a penalty to Gryffindor,taken by Spinner, who puts it away, no trouble, and we continue play,Gryffindor still in possession."
It was as Harry dodged another Bludger, which went spinningdangerously past his head, that it happened. His broom gave asudden, frightening lurch. For a split second, he thought he wasgoing to fall. He gripped the broom tightly with both his handsand knees. He'd never felt anything like that.
It happened again. It was as though the broom was trying to buckhim off. But Nimbus Two Thousands did not suddenly decide to bucktheir riders off. Harry tried to turn back toward the Gryffindorgoal- posts -- he had half a mind to ask Wood to call time-out-- and then he realized that his broom was completely out of hiscontrol. He couldn't turn it. He couldn't direct it at all. It waszigzagging through the air, and every now and then making violentswishing movements that almost unseated him.
Lee was still commentating.
"Slytherin in possession -- Flint with the Quaffle -- passesSpinnet -- passes Bell -- hit hard in the face by a Bludger, hopeit broke his nose -- only joking, Professor -- Slytherins score --A no...
The Slytherins were cheering. No one seemed to have noticedthat Harry's broom was behaving strangely. It was carrying- himslowly higher, away from the game, jerking and twitching as it went.
"Dunno what Harry thinks he's doing," Hagrid mumbled. He staredthrough his binoculars. "If I didn' know better, I'd say he'd lostcontrol of his broom... but he can't have...."
Suddenly, people were pointing up at Harry all over thestands. His broom had started to roll over and over, with him onlyjust managing to hold on. Then the whole crowd gasped. Harry's broomhad given a wild jerk and Harry swung off it. He was now danglingfrom it, holding on with only one hand.
"Did something happen to it when Flint blocked him?" Seamuswhispered.
"Can't have," Hagrid said, his voice shaking. "Can't nothinginterfere with a broomstick except powerful Dark magic -- no kidcould do that to a Nimbus Two Thousand."
At these words, Hermione seized Hagrid's binoculars, but insteadof looking up at Harry, she started looking frantically at the crowd.
"What are you doing?" moaned Ron, gray-faced.
"I knew it," Hermione gasped, "Snape -- look."
Ron grabbed the binoculars. Snape was in the middle of thestands opposite them. He had his eyes fixed on Harry and wasmuttering nonstop under his breath.
"He's doing something -- jinxing the broom," said Hermione.
"What should we do?"
"Leave it to me."
Before Ron could say another word, Hermione had disappeared. Ronturned the binoculars back on Harry. His broom was vibrating sohard, it was almost impossible for him to hang on much longer. Thewhole crowd was on its feet, watching, terrified, as the Weasleysflew up to try and pull Harry safely onto one of their brooms, butit was no good -- every time they got near him, the broom wouldjump higher still. They dropped lower and circled beneath him,obviously hoping to catch him if he fell. Marcus
Flint seized the Quaffle and scored five times without anyonenoticing.
"Come on, Hermione," Ron muttered desperately.
Hermione had fought her way across to the stand where Snapestood, and was now racing along the row behind him; she didn't evenstop to say sorry as she knocked Professor Quirrell headfirst intothe row in front. Reaching Snape, she crouched down, pulled out herwand, and whispered a few, well- chosen words. Bright blue flamesshot from her wand onto the hem of Snape's robes.
It took perhaps thirty seconds for Snape to realize that he wason fire. A sudden yelp told her she had done her job. Scooping thefire off him into a little jar in her pocket, she scrambled backalong the row -- Snape would never know what had happened.
It was enough. Up in the air, Harry was suddenly able to clamberback on to his broom.
"Neville, you can look!" Ron said. Neville had been sobbinginto Hagrid's jacket for the last five minutes.
Harry was speeding toward the ground when the crowd saw himclap his hand to his mouth as though he was about to be sick --he hit the field on all fours -- coughed -- and something gold fellinto his hand.
"I've got the Snitch!" he shouted, waving it above his head,and the game ended in complete confusion.
"He didn't catch it, he nearly swallowed it," Flint was stillhowling twenty minutes later, but it made no difference -- Harryhadn't broken any rules and Lee Jordan was still happily shoutingthe results -- Gryffindor had won by one hundred and seventy pointsto sixty. Harry heard none of this, though. He was being made acup of strong tea back in Hagrid's hut, with Ron and Hermione.
"It was Snape," Ron was explaining, "Hermione and I saw him. Hewas cursing your broomstick, muttering, he wouldn't take his eyesoff you."
"Rubbish," said Hagrid, who hadn't heard a word of what hadgone on next to him in the stands. "Why would Snape do somethin'like that?"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another, wondering whatto tell him. Harry decided on the truth.
"I found out something about him," he told Hagrid. "He tried toget past that three-headed dog on Halloween. It bit him. We thinkhe was trying to steal whatever it's guarding."
Hagrid dropped the teapot.
"How do you know about Fluffy?" he said.
"Fluffy?"
"Yeah -- he's mine -- bought him off a Greek chappie I met inthe pub las' year -- I lent him to Dumbledore to guard the
"Yes?" said Harry eagerly.
"Now, don't ask me anymore," said Hagrid gruffly. "That's topsecret, that is."
"But Snape's trying to steal it."
"Rubbish," said Hagrid again. "Snape's a Hogwarts teacher,he'd do nothin' of the sort."
"So why did he just try and kill Harry?" cried Hermione.
The afternoon's events certainly seemed to have changed hermind about Snape.
I know a jinx when I see one, Hagrid, I've read all about them!
You've got to keep eye contact, and Snape wasn't blinking at all,I saw him!"
"I'm tellin' yeh, yer wrong!" said Hagrid hotly. "I don' knowwhy Harry's broom acted like that, but Snape wouldn' try an' killa student! Now, listen to me, all three of yeh -- yer meddlin'in things that don' concern yeh. It's dangerous. You forget thatdog, an' you forget what it's guardin', that's between ProfessorDumbledore an' Nicolas Flamel --"
"Aha!" said Harry, "so there's someone called Nicolas Flamelinvolved, is there?"
Hagrid looked furious with himself.
CHAPTER TWELVE
THE MIRROR OF ERISED
Christmas was coming. One morning in mid-December, Hogwartswoke to find itself covered in several feet of snow. The lake frozesolid and the Weasley twins were punished for bewitching severalsnowballs so that they followed Quirrell around, bouncing off theback of his turban. The few owls that managed to battle their waythrough the stormy sky to deliver mail had to be nursed back tohealth by Hagrid before they could fly off again.
No one could wait for the holidays to start. While the Gryffindorcommon room and the Great Hall had roaring fires, the draftycorridors had become icy and a bitter wind rattled the windows inthe classrooms. Worst of all were Professor Snape's classes downin the dungeons, where their breath rose in a mist before them andthey kept as close as possible to their hot cauldrons.
"I do feel so sorry," said Draco Malfoy, one Potions class,"for all those people who have to stay at Hogwarts for Christmasbecause they're not wanted at home."
He was looking over at Harry as he spoke. Crabbe and Goylechuckled. Harry, who was measuring out powdered spine of lionfish,ignored them. Malfoy had been even more unpleasant than usual sincethe Quidditch match. Disgusted that the Slytherins had lost, hehad tried to get everyone laughing at how a wide-mouthed tree frogwould be replacing Harry as Seeker next. Then he'd realized thatnobody found this funny, because they were all so impressed at theway Harry had managed to stay on his bucking broomstick. So Malfoy,jealous and angry, had gone back to taunting Harry about having noproper family.
It was true that Harry wasn't going back to Privet Drive forChristmas. Professor McGonagall had come around the week before,making a list of students who would be staying for the holidays,and Harry had signed up at once. He didn't feel sorry for himself atall; this would probably be the best Christmas he'd ever had. Ronand his brothers were staying, too, because Mr. and Mrs. Weasleywere going to Romania to visit Charlie.
When they left the dungeons at the end of Potions, they founda large fir tree blocking the corridor ahead. Two enormous feetsticking out at the bottom and a loud puffing sound told them thatHagrid was behind it.
"Hi, Hagrid, want any help?" Ron asked, sticking his headthrough the branches.
"Nah, I'm all right, thanks, Ron."
"Would you mind moving out of the way?" came Malfoys colddrawl from behind them. "Are you trying to earn some extra money,Weasley? Hoping to be gamekeeper yourself when you leave Hogwarts,I suppose -- that hut of Hagrid's must seem like a palace comparedto what your family's used to."
Ron dived at Malfoy just as Snape came up the stairs.
"WEASLEY!"
Ron let go of the front of Malfoy's robes.
"He was provoked, Professor Snape," said Hagrid, sticking hishuge hairy face out from behind the tree. "Malfoy was insultin'his family."
"Be that as it may, fighting is against Hogwarts rules, Hagrid,"said Snape silkily. "Five points from Gryffindor, Weasley, and begrateful it isn't more. Move along, all of you."
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle pushed roughly past the tree,scattering needles everywhere and smirking.
"I'll get him," said Ron, grinding his teeth at Malfoy's back,"one of these days, I'll get him --"
"I hate them both," said Harry, "Malfoy and Snape."
"Come on, cheer up, it's nearly Christmas," said Hagrid. "Tellyeh what, come with me an' see the Great Hall, looks a treat."
So the three of them followed Hagrid and his tree off to -theGreat Hall, where Professor McGonagall and Professor Flitwick werebusy with the Christmas decorations.
"Ah, Hagrid, the last tree -- put it in the far corner,would you?"
The hall looked spectacular. Festoons of holly and mistletoe hungall around the walls, and no less than twelve towering Christmastrees stood around the room, some sparkling with tiny icicles,some glittering with hundreds of candles.
"How many days you got left until yer holidays?" Hagrid asked.
"Just one," said Hermione. "And that reminds me -Harry, Ron,we've got half an hour before lunch, we should be in the library."
"Oh yeah, you're right," said Ron, tearing his eyes away fromProfessor Flitwick, who had golden bubbles blossoming out of hiswand and was trailing them over the branches of the new tree.
"The library?" said Hagrid, following them out of the hall. "Justbefore the holidays? Bit keen, aren't yeh?"
"Oh, we're not working," Harry told him brightly. "Ever since youmentioned Nicolas Flamel we've been trying to find out who he is."
"You what?" Hagrid looked shocked. "Listen here -- I've toldyeh -- drop it. It's nothin' to you what that dog's guardin'."
"We just want to know who Nicolas Flamel is, that's all,"said Hermione.
"Unless you'd like to tell us and save us the trouble?" Harryadded. "We must've been through hundreds of books already and wecan't find him anywhere -- just give us a hint -- I know I've readhis name somewhere."
"I'm sayin' nothin, said Hagrid flatly.
"Just have to find out for ourselves, then," said Ron, and theyleft Hagrid looking disgruntled and hurried off to the library.
They had indeed been searching books for Flamel's name eversince Hagrid had let it slip, because how else were they going tofind out what Snape was trying to steal? The trouble was, it wasvery hard to know where to begin, not knowing what Flamel mighthave done to get himself into a book. He wasn't in Great Wizardsof the Twentieth Century, or Notable Magical Names of Our Time;he was missing, too, from Important Modern Magical Discoveries,and A Study of Recent Developments in Wizardry. And then, of course,there was the sheer size of the library; tens of thousands of books;thousands of shelves; hundreds of narrow rows.
Hermione took out a list of subjects and titles she haddecided to search while Ron strode off down a row of books andstarted pulling them off the shelves at random. Harry wanderedover to the Restricted Section. He had been wondering for a whileif Flamel wasn't somewhere in there. Unfortunately, you needed aspecially signed note from one of the teachers to look in any ofthe restricted books, and he knew he'd never get one. These werethe books containing powerful Dark Magic never taught at Hogwarts,and only read by older students studying advanced Defense Againstthe Dark Arts.
"What are you looking for, boy?"
"Nothing," said Harry.
Madam Pince the librarian brandished a feather duster at him.
"You'd better get out, then. Go on -- out!"
Wishing he'd been a bit quicker at thinking up some story,Harry left the library. He, Ron, and Hermione had already agreedthey'd better not ask Madam Pince where they could find Flamel. Theywere sure she'd be able to tell them, but they couldn't risk Snapehearing what they were up to.
Harry waited outside in the corridor to see if the other two hadfound anything, but he wasn't very hopeful. They had been lookingfor two weeks, after A, but as they only had odd moments betweenlessons it wasn't surprising they'd found nothing. What they reallyneeded was a nice long search without Madam Pince breathing downtheir necks.
Five minutes later, Ron and Hermione joined him, shaking theirheads. They went off to lunch.
"You will keep looking while I'm away, won't you?" saidHermione. "And send me an owl if you find anything."
"And you could ask your parents if they know who Flamel is,"said Ron. "It'd be safe to ask them."
"Very safe, as they're both dentists," said Hermione.
Once the holidays had started, Ron and Harry were having toogood a time to think much about Flamel. They had the dormitory tothemselves and the common room was far emptier than usual, so theywere able to get the good armchairs by the fire. They sat by thehour eating anything they could spear on a toasting fork -- bread,English muffins, marshmallows -- and plotting ways of getting Malfoyexpelled, which were fun to talk about even if they wouldn't work.
Ron also started teaching Harry wizard chess. This was exactlylike Muggle chess except that the figures were alive, which madeit a lot like directing troops in battle. Ron's set was very oldand battered. Like everything else he owned, it had once belonged tosomeone else in his family -- in this case, his grandfather. However,old chessmen weren't a drawback at all. Ron knew them so well henever had trouble getting them to do what he wanted.
Harry played with chessmen Seamus Finnigan had lent him, andthey didn't trust him at all. He wasn't a very good player yetand they kept shouting different bits of advice at him, which wasconfusing. "Don't send me there, can't you see his knight? Send him,we can afford to lose him." On Christmas Eve, Harry went to bedlooking forward to the next day for the food and the fun, but notexpecting any presents at all. When he woke early in the morning,however, the first thing he saw was a small pile of packages atthe foot of his bed.
"Merry Christmas," said Ron sleepily as Harry scrambled out ofbed and pulled on his bathrobe.
"You, too," said Harry. "Will you look at this? I've got somepresents!"
"What did you expect, turnips?" said Ron, turning to his ownpile, which was a lot bigger than Harry's.
Harry picked up the top parcel. It was wrapped in thick brownpaper and scrawled across it was To Harry, from Hagrid. Insidewas a roughly cut wooden flute. Hagrid had obviously whittled ithimself. Harry blew it -- it sounded a bit like an owl.
A second, very small parcel contained a note.
We received your message and enclose your Christmas present. FromUncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia. Taped to the note was a fifty-pencepiece.
"That's friendly," said Harry.
Ron was fascinated by the fifty pence.
"Weird!" he said, 'NMat a shape! This is money?"
"You can keep it," said Harry, laughing at how pleased Ronwas. "Hagrid and my aunt and uncle -- so who sent these?"
"I think I know who that one's from," said Ron, turning a bitpink and pointing to a very lumpy parcel. "My mom. I told her youdidn't expect any presents and -- oh, no," he groaned, "she's madeyou a Weasley sweater."
Harry had torn open the parcel to find a thick, hand-knittedsweater in emerald green and a large box of homemade fudge.
"Every year she makes us a sweater," said Ron, unwrapping hisown, "and mine's always maroon."
"That's really nice of her," said Harry, trying the fudge,which was very tasty.
His next present also contained candy -- a large box of ChocolateFrogs from Hermione.
This only left one parcel. Harry picked it up and felt it. Itwas very light. He unwrapped it.
Something fluid and silvery gray went slithering to the floorwhere it lay in gleaming folds. Ron gasped.
"I've heard of those," he said in a hushed voice, dropping thebox of Every Flavor Beans he'd gotten from Hermione. "If that'swhat I think it is -- they're really rare, and really valuable."
"What is it?"
Harry picked the shining, silvery cloth off the floor. It wasstrange to the touch, like water woven into material.
"It's an invisibility cloak," said Ron, a look of awe on hisface. "I'm sure it is -- try it on."
Harry threw the cloak around his shoulders and Ron gave a yell.
"It is! Look down!"
Harry looked down at his feet, but they were gone. He dashed tothe mirror. Sure enough, his reflection looked back at him, just hishead suspended in midair, his body completely invisible. He pulledthe cloak over his head and his reflection vanished completely.
"There's a note!" said Ron suddenly. "A note fell out of it!"
Harry pulled off the cloak and seized the letter. Written innarrow, loopy writing he had never seen before were the followingwords: Your father left this in my possession before he died. Itis time it was returned to you. Use it well.
A Very Merry Christmas to you.
There was no signature. Harry stared at the note. Ron wasadmiring the cloak.
"I'd give anything for one of these," he said. "Anything. What'sthe matter?"
"Nothing," said Harry. He felt very strange. Who had sent thecloak? Had it really once belonged to his father?
Before he could say or think anything else, the dormitory doorwas flung open and Fred and George Weasley bounded in. Harry stuffedthe cloak quickly out of sight. He didn't feel like sharing it withanyone else yet.
"Merry Christmas!"
"Hey, look -- Harry's got a Weasley sweater, too!"
Fred and George were wearing blue sweaters, one with a largeyellow F on it, the other a G.
"Harry's is better than ours, though," said Fred, holding upHarry's sweater. "She obviously makes more of an effort if you'renot family."
"Why aren't you wearing yours, Ron?" George demanded. "Come on,get it on, they're lovely and warm."
"I hate maroon," Ron moaned halfheartedly as he pulled it overhis head.
"You haven't got a letter on yours," George observed. "I supposeshe thinks you don't forget your name. But we're not stupid --we know we're called Gred and Forge."
"What's all th is noise.
Percy Weasley stuck his head through the door, lookingdisapproving. He had clearly gotten halfway through unwrapping hispresents as he, too, carried a lumpy sweater over his arm, which
Fred seized.
"P for prefect! Get it on, Percy, come on, we're all wearingours, even Harry got one."
"I -- don't -- want said Percy thickly, as the twins forcedthe sweater over his head, knocking his glasses askew.
"And you're not sitting with the prefects today, either," said
George. "Christmas is a time for family."
They frog-marched Percy from the room, his arms pinned to hisside by his sweater.
Harry had never in all his life had such a Christmas dinner. Ahundred fat, roast turkeys; mountains of roast and boiled potatoes;platters of chipolatas; tureens of buttered peas, silver boatsof thick, rich gravy and cranberry sauce -- and stacks of wizardcrackers every few feet along the table. These fantastic partyfavors were nothing like the feeble Muggle ones the Dursleys usuallybought, with their little plastic toys and their flimsy paper hatsinside. Harry pulled a wizard cracker with Fred and it didn't justbang, it went off with a blast like a cannon and engulfed them allin a cloud of blue smoke, while from the inside exploded a rearadmiral's hat and several live, white mice. Up at the High Table,Dumbledore had swapped his pointed wizard's hat for a floweredbonnet, and was chuckling merrily at a joke Professor Flitwick hadjust read him.
Flaming Christmas puddings followed the turkey. Percy nearlybroke his teeth on a silver sickle embedded in his slice. Harrywatched Hagrid getting redder and redder in the face as he calledfor more wine, finally kissing Professor McGonagall on the cheek,who, to Harry's amazement, giggled and blushed, her top hat lopsided.
When Harry finally left the table, he was laden down with a stackof things out of the crackers, including a pack of nonexplodable,luminous balloons, a Grow-Your-Own-Warts kit, and his own new wizardchess set. The white mice had disappeared and Harry had a nastyfeeling they were going to end up as Mrs. Norris's Christmas dinner.
Harry and the Weasleys spent a happy afternoon having a furioussnowball fight on the grounds. Then, cold, wet, and gasping forbreath, they returned to the fire in the Gryffindor common room,where Harry broke in his new chess set by losing spectacularly toRon. He suspected he wouldn't have lost so badly if Percy hadn'ttried to help him so much.
After a meal of turkey sandwiches, crumpets, trifle, andChristmas cake, everyone felt too full and sleepy to do muchbefore bed except sit and watch Percy chase Fred and George allover Gryffindor tower because they'd stolen his prefect badge.
It had been Harry's best Christmas day ever. Yet something hadbeen nagging at the back of his mind all day. Not until he climbedinto bed was he free to think about it: the invisibility cloak andwhoever had sent it.
Ron, full of turkey and cake and with nothing mysterious tobother him, fell asleep almost as soon as he'd drawn the curtainsof his four-poster. Harry leaned over the side of his own bed andpulled the cloak out from under it.
His father's... this had been his father's. He let the materialflow over his hands, smoother than silk, light as air. Use it well,the note had said.
He had to try it, now. He slipped out of bed and wrapped thecloak around himself. Looking down at his legs, he saw only moonlightand shadows. It was a very funny feeling.
Use it well.
Suddenly, Harry felt wide-awake. The whole of Hogwarts wasopen to him in this cloak. Excitement flooded through him as hestood there in the dark and silence. He could go anywhere in this,anywhere, and Filch would never know.
Ron grunted in his sleep. Should Harry wake him? Somethingheld him back -- his father's cloak -- he felt that this time --the first time -- he wanted to use it alone.
He crept out of the dormitory, down the stairs, across thecommon room, and climbed through the portrait hole.
"Who's there?" squawked the Fat Lady. Harry said nothing. Hewalked quickly down the corridor.
Where should he go? He stopped, his heart racing, andthought. And then it came to him. The Restricted Section in thelibrary. He'd be able to read as long as he liked, as long as ittook to find out who Flamel was. He set off, drawing the invisibilitycloak tight around him as he walked.
The library was pitch-black and very eerie. Harry lit a lampto see his way along the rows of books. The lamp looked as if itwas floating along in midair, and even though Harry could feel hisarm supporting it, the sight gave him the creeps.
The Restricted Section was right at the back of the library. Stepping carefully over the rope that separated these books from therest of the library, he held up his lamp to read the titles.
They didn't tell him much. Their peeling, faded gold lettersspelled words in languages Harry couldn't understand. Some had notitle at all. One book had a dark stain on it that looked horriblylike blood. The hairs on the back of Harry's neck prickled. Maybehe was imagining it, maybe not, but he thought a faint whisperingwas coming from the books, as though they knew someone was therewho shouldn't be.
He had to start somewhere. Setting the lamp down carefully on thefloor, he looked along the bottom shelf for an interestinglookingbook. A large black and silver volume caught his eye. He pulled itout with difficulty, because it was very heavy, and, balancing iton his knee, let it fall open.
A piercing, bloodcurdling shriek split the silence -- the bookwas screaming! Harry snapped it shut, but the shriek went on andon, one high, unbroken, earsplitting note. He stumbled backwardand knocked over his lamp, which went out at once. Panicking, heheard footsteps coming down the corridor outside -- stuffing theshrieking book back on the shelf, he ran for it. He passed Filch inthe doorway; Filch's pale, wild eyes looked straight through him,and Harry slipped under Filch's outstretched arm and streaked offup the corridor, the book's shrieks still ringing in his ears.
He came to a sudden halt in front of a tall suit of armor. Hehad been so busy getting away from the library, he hadn't paidattention to where he was going. Perhaps because it was dark, hedidn't recognize where he was at all. There was a suit of armornear the kitchens, he knew, but he must be five floors above there.
"You asked me to come directly to you, Professor, if anyonewas wandering around at night, and somebody's been in the libraryRestricted Section."
Harry felt the blood drain out of his face. Wherever he was,Filch must know a shortcut, because his soft, greasy voice wasgetting nearer, and to his horror, it was Snape who replied,"The Restricted Section? Well, they can't be far, we'll catch them."
Harry stood rooted to the spot as Filch and Snape came aroundthe corner ahead. They couldn't see him, of course, but it was anarrow corridor and if they came much nearer they'd knock rightinto him -- the cloak didn't stop him from being solid.
He backed away as quietly as he could. A door stood ajar tohis left. It was his only hope. He squeezed through it, holdinghis breath, trying not to move it, and to his relief he managed toget inside the room without their noticing anything. They walkedstraight past, and Harry leaned against the wall, breathing deeply,listening to their footsteps dying away. That had been close, veryclose. It was a few seconds before he noticed anything about theroom he had hidden in.
It looked like an unused classroom. The dark shapes of desksand chairs were piled against the walls, and there was an upturnedwastepaper basket -- but propped against the wall facing him wassomething that didn't look as if it belonged there, something thatlooked as if someone had just put it there to keep it out of the way.
It was a magnificent mirror, as high as the ceiling, withan ornate gold frame, standing on two clawed feet. There was aninscription carved around the top: Erised stra ehru oyt ube cafruoyt on wohsi. His panic fading now that there was no sound of Filchand Snape, Harry moved nearer to the mirror, wanting to look athimself but see no reflection again. He stepped in front of it.
He had to clap his hands to his mouth to stop himself fromscreaming. He whirled around. His heart was pounding far morefuriously than when the book had screamed -- for he had seen notonly himself in the mirror, but a whole crowd of people standingright behind him.
But the room was empty. Breathing very fast, he turned slowlyback to the mirror.
There he was, reflected in it, white and scared-looking, andthere, reflected behind him, were at least ten others. Harry lookedover his shoulder -- but still, no one was there. Or were they allinvisible, too? Was he in fact in a room full of invisible peopleand this mirror's trick was that it reflected them, invisible or not?
He looked in the mirror again. A woman standing right behind hisreflection was smiling at him and waving. He reached out a hand andfelt the air behind him. If she was really there, he'd touch her,their reflections were so close together, but he felt only air --she and the others existed only in the mirror.
She was a very pretty woman. She had dark red hair and her eyes-- her eyes are just like mine, Harry thought, edging a littlecloser to the glass. Bright green -- exactly the same shape,but then he noticed that she was crying; smiling, but crying atthe same time. The tall, thin, black-haired man standing next toher put his arm around her. He wore glasses, and his hair was veryuntidy. It stuck up at the back, just as Harry's did.
Harry was so close to the mirror now that his nose was nearlytouching that of his reflection.
"Mom?" he whispered. "Dad?"
They just looked at him, smiling. And slowly, Harry lookedinto the faces of the other people in the mirror, and saw otherpairs of green eyes like his, other noses like his, even a littleold man who looked as though he had Harry's knobbly knees -- Harrywas looking at his family, for the first time in his life.
The Potters smiled and waved at Harry and he stared hungrilyback at them, his hands pressed flat against the glass as thoughhe was hoping to fall right through it and reach them. He had apowerful kind of ache inside him, half joy, half terrible sadness.
How long he stood there, he didn't know. The reflections did notfade and he looked and looked until a distant noise brought him backto his senses. He couldn't stay here, he had to find his way backto bed. He tore his eyes away from his mother's face, whispered,"I'll come back," and hurried from the room.
"You could have woken me up," said Ron, crossly.
"You can come tonight, I'm going back, I want to show youthe mirror.
"I'd like to see your mom and dad," Ron said eagerly.
"And I want to see all your family, all the Weasleys, you'llbe able to show me your other brothers and everyone."
"You can see them any old time," said Ron. "Just come round myhouse this summer. Anyway, maybe it only shows dead people. Shameabout not finding Flamel, though. Have some bacon or something,why aren't you eating anything?"
Harry couldn't eat. He had seen his parents and would be seeingthem again tonight. He had almost forgotten about Flamel. It didn'tseem very important anymore. Who cared what the three headed dogwas guarding? What did it matter if Snape stole it, really?
"Are you all right?" said Ron. "You look odd."
What Harry feared most was that he might not be able to find themirror room again. With Ron covered in the cloak, too, they had towalk much more slowly the next night. They tried retracing Harry'sroute from the library, wandering around the dark passageways fornearly an hour.
"I'm freezing," said Ron. "Let's forget it and go back."
"No!" Harry hissed. I know it's here somewhere."
They passed the ghost of a tall witch gliding in the oppositedirection, but saw no one else. just as Ron started moaning thathis feet were dead with cold, Harry spotted the suit of armor.
"It's here -- just here -- yes!"
They pushed the door open. Harry dropped the cloak from aroundhis shoulders and ran to the mirror.
There they were. His mother and father beamed at the sightof him.
"See?" Harry whispered.
"I can't see anything."
"Look! Look at them all... there are loads of them...."
"I can only see you."
"Look in it properly, go on, stand where I am."
Harry stepped aside, but with Ron in front of the mirror,he couldn't see his family anymore, just Ron in his paisley pajamas.
Ron, though, was staring transfixed at his image.
"Look at me!" he said.
"Can you see all your family standing around you?"
"No -- I'm alone -- but I'm different -- I look older -- andI'm head boy!"
"What?"
"I am -- I'm wearing the badge like Bill used to -- and I'mholding the house cup and the Quidditch cup -- I'm Quidditchcaptain, too.
Ron tore his eyes away from this splendid sight to look excitedlyat Harry.
"Do you think this mirror shows the future?"
"How can it? All my family are dead -- let me have anotherlook --"
"You had it to yourself all last night, give me a bit more time."
"You're only holding the Quidditch cup, what's interestingabout that? I want to see my parents."
"Don't push me --"
A sudden noise outside in the corridor put an end to theirdiscussion. They hadn't realized how loudly they had been talking.
"Quick!"
Ron threw the cloak back over them as the luminous eyes ofMrs. Norris came round the door. Ron and Harry stood quite still,both thinking the same thing -- did the cloak work on cats? Afterwhat seemed an age, she turned and left.
"This isn't safe -- she might have gone for Filch, I bet sheheard us. Come on."
And Ron pulled Harry out of the room.
The snow still hadn't melted the next morning.
"Want to play chess, Harry?" said Ron.
"No."
"Why don't we go down and visit Hagrid?"
"No... you go..."
"I know what you're thinking about, Harry, that mirror. Don'tgo back tonight."
"Why not?"
"I dunno, I've just got a bad feeling about it -- andanyway, you've had too many close shaves already. Filch, Snape,and Mrs. Norris are wandering around. So what if they can't seeyou? What if they walk into you? What if you knock something over?"
"You sound like Hermione."
"I'm serious, Harry, don't go."
But Harry only had one thought in his head, which was to getback in front of the mirror, and Ron wasn't going to stop him.
That third night he found his way more quickly than before. Hewas walking so fast he knew he was making more noise than was wise,but he didn't meet anyone.
And there were his mother and father smiling at him again,and one of his grandfathers nodding happily. Harry sank down to siton the floor in front of the mirror. There was nothing to stop himfrom staying here all night with his family. Nothing at all.
Except --
"So -- back again, Harry?"
Harry felt as though his insides had turned to ice. He lookedbehind him. Sitting on one of the desks by the wall was none otherthan Albus Dumbledore. Harry must have walked straight past him,so desperate to get to the mirror he hadn't noticed him.
" -- I didn't see you, sir."
"Strange how nearsighted being invisible can make you," saidDumbledore, and Harry was relieved to see that he was smiling.
"So," said Dumbledore, slipping off the desk to sit on thefloor with Harry, "you, like hundreds before you, have discoveredthe delights of the Mirror of Erised."
"I didn't know it was called that, Sir."
"But I expect you've realized by now what it does?"
"It -- well -- it shows me my family --"
"And it showed your friend Ron himself as head boy."
"How did you know --?"
"I don't need a cloak to become invisible," said Dumbledoregently. "Now, can you think what the Mirror of Erised shows us all?"
Harry shook his head.
"Let me explain. The happiest man on earth would be able touse the Mirror of Erised like a normal mirror, that is, he wouldlook into it and see himself exactly as he is. Does that help?"
Harry thought. Then he said slowly, "It shows us what wewant... whatever we want..."
"Yes and no," said Dumbledore quietly. "It shows us nothingmore or less than the deepest, most desperate desire of ourhearts. You, who have never known your family, see them standingaround you. Ronald Weasley, who has always been overshadowedby his brothers, sees himself standing alone, the best of allof them. However, this mirror will give us neither knowledge ortruth. Men have wasted away before it, entranced by what they haveseen, or been driven mad, not knowing if what it shows is real oreven possible.
"The Mirror will be moved to a new home tomorrow, Harry, and Iask you not to go looking for it again. If you ever do run acrossit, you will now be prepared. It does not do to dwell on dreamsand forget to live, remember that. Now, why don't you put thatadmirable cloak back on and get off to bed?"
Harry stood up.
"Sir -- Professor Dumbledore? Can I ask you something?"
"Obviously, you've just done so," Dumbledore smiled. "You mayask me one more thing, however."
"What do you see when you look in the mirror?"
"I? I see myself holding a pair of thick, woolen socks."
Harry stared.
"One can never have enough socks," said Dumbledore. "AnotherChristmas has come and gone and I didn't get a single pair. Peoplewill insist on giving me books."
It was only when he was back in bed that it struck Harry thatDumbledore might not have been quite truthful. But then, he thought,as he shoved Scabbers off his pillow, it had been quite a personalquestion.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
NICOLAS FLAMEL
Dumbledore had convinced Harry not to go looking for the Mirrorof Erised again, and for the rest of the Christmas holidays theinvisibility cloak stayed folded at the bottom of his trunk. Harrywished he could forget what he'd seen in the mirror as easily, buthe couldn't. He started having nightmares. Over and over again hedreamed about his parents disappearing in a flash of green light,while a high voice cackled with laughter.
"You see, Dumbledore was right, that mirror could drive you mad,"said Ron, when Harry told him about these drearns.
Hermione, who came back the day before term started, took adifferent view of things. She was torn between horror at the ideaof Harry being out of bed, roaming the school three nights in a row("If Filch had caught you!"), and disappointment that he hadn't atleast found out who Nicolas Flamel was.
They had almost given up hope of ever finding Flamel in a li-brary book, even though Harry was still sure he'd read the namesomewhere. Once term had started, they were back to skimming throughbooks for ten minutes during their breaks. Harry had even less timethan the other two, because Quidditch practice had started again.
Wood was working the team harder than ever. Even the endlessrain that had replaced the snow couldn't dampen his spirits. TheWeasleys complained that Wood was becoming a fanatic, but Harry wason Wood's side. If they won their next match, against Hufflepuff,they would overtake Slytherin in the house championship for the firsttime in seven years. Quite apart from wanting to win, Harry foundthat he had fewer nightmares when he was tired out after training.
Then, during one particularly wet and muddy practice session,Wood gave the team a bit of bad news. He'd just gotten very angrywith the Weasleys, who kept dive-bombing each other and pretendingto fall off their brooms.
"Will you stop messing around!" he yelled. "That's exactlythe sort of thing that'll lose us the match! Snape's refereeingthis time, and he'll be looking for any excuse to knock pointsoff Gryffindor!"
George Weasley really did fall off his broom at these words.
"Snape's refereeing?" he spluttered through a mouthful ofmud. "When's he ever refereed a Quidditch match? He's not going tobe fair if we might overtake Slytherin."
The rest of the team landed next to George to complain, too.
"It's not my fault," said Wood. "We've just got to make surewe play a clean game, so Snape hasn't got an excuse to pick on us."
Which was all very well, thought Harry, but he had another reasonfor not wanting Snape near him while he was playing Quidditch....
The rest of the team hung back to talk to one another as usualat the end of practice, but Harry headed straight back to theGryffindor common room, where he found Ron and Hermione playingchess. Chess was the only thing Hermione ever lost at, somethingHarry and Ron thought was very good for her.
"Don't talk to me for a moment," said Ron when Harry sat downnext to him, "I need to concen --" He caught sight of Harry'sface. "What's the matter with you? You look terrible."
Speaking quietly so that no one else would hear, Harry told theother two about Snape's sudden, sinister desire to be a Quidditchreferee.
"Don't play," said Hermione at once.
"Say you're ill," said Ron.
"Pretend to break your leg," Hermione suggested.
"Really break your leg," said Ron.
"I can't," said Harry. "There isn't a reserve Seeker. If I backout, Gryffindor can't play at all."
At that moment Neville toppled into the common room. How hehad managed to climb through the portrait hole was anyone's guess,because his legs had been stuck together with what they recognizedat once as the Leg-Locker Curse. He must have had to bunny hop allthe way up to Gryffindor tower.
Everyone fell over laughing except Hermione, who leapt up andperformed the countercurse. Neville's legs sprang apart and hegot to his feet, trembling. "What happened?" Hermione asked him,leading him over to sit with Harry and Ron.
"Malfoy," said Neville shakily. "I met him outside thelibrary. He said he'd been looking for someone to practice that on."
"Go to Professor McGonagall!" Hermione urged Neville. "Reporthim!"
Neville shook his head.
"I don't want more trouble," he mumbled.
"You've got to stand up to him, Neville!" said Ron. "He's usedto walking all over people, but that's no reason to lie down infront of him and make it easier."
"There's no need to tell me I'm not brave enough to be inGryffindor, Malfoy's already done that," Neville choked out.
Harry felt in the pocket of his robes and pulled out a ChocolateFrog, the very last one from the box Hermione had given him forChristmas. He gave it to Neville, who looked as though he might cry.
"You're worth twelve of Malfoy," Harry said. "The SortingHat chose you for Gryffindor, didn't it? And where's Malfoy? Instinking Slytherin."
Neville's lips twitched in a weak smile as he unwrapped the frog.
"Thanks, Harry... I think I'll go to bed.... D'you want the card,you collect them, don't you?"
As Neville walked away, Harry looked at the Famous Wizard card.
"Dumbledore again," he said, "He was the first one I ever-"
He gasped. He stared at the back of the card. Then he lookedup at Ron and Hermione.
"I've found him!" he whispered. "I've found Flamel! I told youI'd read the name somewhere before, I read it on the train cominghere -- listen to this: 'Dumbledore is particularly famous for hisdefeat of the dark wizard Grindelwald in 1945, for the discoveryof the twelve uses of dragon's blood, and his work on alchemy withhis partner, Nicolas Flamel'!"
Hermione jumped to her feet. She hadn't looked so excited sincethey'd gotten back the marks for their very first piece of homework.
"Stay there!" she said, and she sprinted up the stairs tothe girls' dormitories. Harry and Ron barely had time to exchangemystified looks before she was dashing back, an enormous old bookin her arms.
"I never thought to look in here!" she whispered excitedly. "Igot this out of the library weeks ago for a bit of light reading."
"Light?" said Ron, but Hermione told him to be quiet until she'dlooked something up, and started flicking frantically through thepages, muttering to herself.
At last she found what she was looking for.
"I knew it! I knew it!"
"Are we allowed to speak yet?" said Ron grumpily. Hermioneignored him.
"Nicolas Flamel," she whispered dramatically, "is the onlyknown maker of the Sorcerer's Stone!"
This didn't have quite the effect she'd expected.
"The what?" said Harry and Ron.
"Oh, honestly, don't you two read? Look -- read that, there."
She pushed the book toward them, and Harry and Ron read: Theancient study of alchemy is concerned with making the Sorcerer'sStone, a legendary substance with astonishing powers. The stone willtransform any metal into pure gold. It also produces the Elixir ofLife, which will make the drinker immortal.
There have been many reports of the Sorcerer's Stone over thecenturies, but the only Stone currently in existence belongs toMr. Nicolas Flamel, the noted alchemist and opera lover. Mr. Flamel,who celebrated his six hundred and sixty-fifth birthday last year,enjoys a quiet life in Devon with his wife, Perenelle (six hundredand fifty-eight).
"See?" said Hermione, when Harry and Ron had finished. "The dogmust be guarding Flamel's Sorcerer's Stone! I bet he asked Dumbledoreto keep it safe for him, because they're friends and he knew someonewas after it, that's why he wanted the Stone moved out of Gringotts!"
"A stone that makes gold and stops you from ever dying!" saidHarry. "No wonder Snape's after it! Anyone would want it."
"And no wonder we couldn't find Flamel in that Study of RecentDevelopments in Wizardry," said Ron. "He's not exactly recent ifhe's six hundred and sixty-five, is he?"
The next morning in Defense Against the Dark Arts, while copyingdown different ways of treating werewolf bites, Harry and Ron werestill discussing what they'd do with a Sorcerer's Stone if they hadone. It wasn't until Ron said he'd buy his own Quidditch team thatHarry remembered about Snape and the coming match.
"I'm going to play," he told Ron and Hermione. "If I don't, allthe Slytherins will think I'm just too scared to face Snape. I'llshow them... it'll really wipe the smiles off their faces if we win."
"Just as long as we're not wiping you off the field," saidHermione.
As the match drew nearer, however, Harry became more and morenervous, whatever he told Ron and Hermione. The rest of the teamwasn't too calm, either. The idea of overtaking Slytherin in thehouse championship was wonderful, no one had done it for seven years,but would they be allowed to, with such a biased referee?
Harry didn't know whether he was imagining it or not, buthe seemed to keep running into Snape wherever he went. At times,he even wondered whether Snape was following him, trying to catchhim on his own. Potions lessons were turning into a sort of weeklytorture, Snape was so horrible to Harry. Could Snape possibly knowthey'd found out about the Sorcerer's Stone? Harry didn't see howhe could -- yet he sometimes had the horrible feeling that Snapecould read minds.
Harry knew, when they wished him good luck outside the lockerrooms the next afternoon, that Ron and Hermione were wonderingwhether they'd ever see him alive again. This wasn't what you'dcall comforting. Harry hardly heard a word of Wood's pep talk as hepulled on his Quidditch robes and picked up his Nimbus Two Thousand.
Ron and Hermione, meanwhile, had found a place in the standsnext to Neville, who couldn't understand why they looked sogrim and worried, or why they had both brought their wands to thematch. Little did Harry know that Ron and Hermione had been secretlypracticing the Leg-Locker Curse. They'd gotten the idea from Malfoyusing it on Neville, and were ready to use it on Snape if he showedany sign of wanting to hurt Harry.
"Now, don't forget, it's Locomotor Mortis," Hermione mutteredas Ron slipped his wand up his sleeve.
"I know," Ron snapped. "Don't nag."
Back in the locker room, Wood had taken Harry aside.
"Don't want to pressure you, Potter, but if we ever need anearly capture of the Snitch it's now. Finish the game before Snapecan favor Hufflepuff too much."
"The whole school's out there!" said Fred Weasley, peering outof the door. "Even -- blimey -- Dumbledore's come to watch!"
Harry's heart did a somersault.
"Dumbledore?" he said, dashing to the door to make sure. Fredwas right. There was no mistaking that silver beard.
Harry could have laughed out loud with relief He was safe. Therewas simply no way that Snape would dare to try to hurt him ifDumbledore was watching.
Perhaps that was why Snape was looking so angry as the teamsmarched onto the field, something that Ron noticed, too.
"I've never seen Snape look so mean," he told Hermione. "Look-they're off Ouch!"
Someone had poked Ron in the back of the head. It was Malfoy.
"Oh, sorry, Weasley, didn't see you there."
Malfoy grinned broadly at Crabbe and Goyle.
"Wonder how long Potter's going to stay on his broom thistime? Anyone want a bet? What about you, Weasley?"
Ron didn't answer; Snape had just awarded Hufflepuff a penaltybecause George Weasley had hit a Bludger at him. Hermione, who hadall her fingers crossed in her lap, was squinting fixedly at Harry,who was circling the game like a hawk, looking for the Snitch.
"You know how I think they choose people for the Gryffindorteam?" said Malfoy loudly a few minutes later, as Snape awardedHufflepuff another penalty for no reason at all. "It's peoplethey feel sorry for. See, there's Potter, who's got no parents,then there's the Weasleys, who've got no money -- you should be onthe team, Longbottom, you've got no brains."
Neville went bright red but turned in his seat to face Malfoy.
"I'm worth twelve of you, Malfoy," he stammered.
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle howled with laughter, but Ron, stillnot daring to take his eyes from the game, said, "You tell him,Neville."
"Longbottom, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Weasley,and that's saying something."
Ron's nerves were already stretched to the breaking point withanxiety about Harry.
"I'm warning you, Malfoy -- one more word
"Ron!" said Hermione suddenly, "Harry --"
"What? Where?"
Harry had suddenly gone into a spectacular dive, which drew gaspsand cheers from the crowd. Hermione stood up, her crossed fingersin her mouth, as Harry streaked toward the ground like a bullet.
"You're in luck, Weasley, Potter's obviously spotted some moneyon the ground!" said Malfoy.
Ron snapped. Before Malfoy knew what was happening, Ron wason top of him, wrestling him to the ground. Neville hesitated,then clambered over the back of his seat to help.
"Come on, Harry!" Hermione screamed, leaping onto her seat towatch as Harry sped straight at Snape -- she didn't even noticeMalfoy and Ron rolling around under her seat, or the scuffles andyelps coming from the whirl of fists that was Neville, Crabbe,and Goyle.
Up in the air, Snape turned on his broomstick just in timeto see something scarlet shoot past him, missing him by inches --the next second, Harry had pulled out of the dive, his arm raisedin triumph, the Snitch clasped in his hand.
The stands erupted; it had to be a record, no one could everremember the Snitch being caught so quickly.
"Ron! Ron! Where are you? The game's over! Harry's won! We'vewon! Gryffindor is in the lead!" shrieked Hermione, dancing up anddown on her seat and hugging Parvati Patil in the row in front.
Harry jumped off his broom, a foot from the ground. He couldn'tbelieve it. He'd done it -- the game was over; it had barely lastedfive minutes. As Gryffindors came spilling onto the field, he sawSnape land nearby, white-faced and tight-lipped -- then Harry felta hand on his shoulder and looked up into Dumbledore's smiling face.
"Well done," said Dumbledore quietly, so that only Harrycould hear. "Nice to see you haven't been brooding about thatmirror... been keeping busy... excellent..."
Snape spat bitterly on the ground.
Harry left the locker room alone some time later, to take hisNimbus Two Thousand back to the broomshed. He couldn't ever rememberfeeling happier. He'd really done something to be proud of now -- noone could say he was just a famous name any more. The evening air hadnever smelled so sweet. He walked over the damp grass, reliving thelast hour in his head, which was a happy blur: Gryffindors runningto lift him onto their shoulders; Ron and Hermione in the distance,jumping up and down, Ron cheering through a heavy nosebleed.
Harry had reached the shed. He leaned against the wooden door andlooked up at Hogwarts, with its windows glowing red in the settingsun. Gryffindor in the lead. He'd done it, he'd shown Snape....
And speaking of Snape...
A hooded figure came swiftly down the front steps of thecastle. Clearly not wanting to be seen, it walked as fast as possibletoward the forbidden forest. Harry's victory faded from his mindas he watched. He recognized the figure's prowling walk. Snape,sneaking into the forest while everyone else was at dinner --what was going on?
Harry jumped back on his Nimbus Two Thousand and tookoff. Gliding silently over the castle he saw Snape enter the forestat a run. He followed.
The trees were so thick he couldn't see where Snape had gone. Heflew in circles, lower and lower, brushing the top branches of treesuntil he heard voices. He glided toward them and landed noiselesslyin a towering beech tree.
He climbed carefully along one of the branches, holding tightto his broomstick, trying to see through the leaves. Below, in ashadowy clearing, stood Snape, but he wasn't alone. Quirrell wasthere, too. Harry couldn't make out the look on his face, but hewas stuttering worse than ever. Harry strained to catch what theywere saying.
"... d-don't know why you wanted t-t-to meet here of allp-places, Severus..."
"Oh, I thought we'd keep this private," said Snape, his voiceicy. "Students aren't supposed to know about the Sorcerer's Stone,after all."
Harry leaned forward. Quirrell was mumbling something. Snapeinterrupted him.
"Have you found out how to get past that beast of Hagrid's yet?"
"B-b-but Severus, I --"
"You don't want me as your enemy, Quirrell," said Snape, takinga step toward him.
"I-I don't know what you
"You know perfectly well what I mean."
An owl hooted loudly, and Harry nearly fell out of the tree. Hesteadied himself in time to hear Snape say, "-- your little bit ofhocus-pocus. I'm waiting."
"B-but I d-d-don't --"
"Very well," Snape cut in. "We'll have another little chat soon,when you've had time to think things over and decided where yourloyalties lie."
He threw his cloak over his head and strode out of theclearing. It was almost dark now, but Harry could see Quirrell,standing quite still as though he was petrified.
"Harry, where have you been?" Hermione squeaked.
"We won! You won! We won!" shouted Ron, thumping Harry on theback. "And I gave Malfoy a black eye, and Neville tried to take onCrabbe and Goyle single-handed! He's still out cold but Madam Pomfteysays he'll be all right - talk about showing Slytherin! Everyone'swaiting for you in the common room, we're having a party, Fred andGeorge stole some cakes and stuff from the kitchens."
"Never mind that now," said Harry breathlessly. "Let's find anempty room, you wait 'til you hear this...."
He made sure Peeves wasn't inside before shutting the doorbehind them, then he told them what he'd seen and heard.
"So we were right, it is the Sorcerer's Stone, and Snape's tryingto force Quirrell to help him get it. He asked if he knew how to getpast Fluffy - and he said something about Quirrell's 'hocus pocuss--I reckon there are other things guarding the stone apart from Fluffy,loads of enchantments, probably, and Quirrell would have done someanti-Dark Arts spell that Snape needs to break through --"
"So you mean the Stone's only safe as long as Quirrell standsup to Snape?" said Hermione in alarm.
"It'll be gone by next Tuesday," said Ron.
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
NORBERT THE NORWEGIAN RIDGEBACK
Quirrell, however, must have been braver than they'd thought. Inthe weeks that followed he did seem to be getting paler and thinner,but it didn't look as though he'd cracked yet.
Every time they passed the third-floor corridor, Harry, Ron,and Hermione would press their ears to the door to check that Fluffywas still growling inside. Snape was sweeping about in his usual badtemper, which surely meant that the Stone was still safe. WheneverHarry passed Quirrell these days he gave him an encouraging sortof smile, and Ron had started telling people off for laughing atQuirrell's stutter.
Hermione, however, had more on her mind than the Sorcerer'sStone. She had started drawing up study schedules and colorcodingall her notes. Harry and Ron wouldn't have minded, but she keptnagging them to do the same.
"Hermione, the exams are ages away."
"Ten weeks," Hermione snapped. "That's not ages, that's likea second to Nicolas Flamel."
"But we're not six hundred years old," Ron reminded her. "Anyway,what are you studying for, you already know it A."
"What am I studying for? Are you crazy? You realize we need topass these exams to get into the second year? They're very important,I should have started studying a month ago, I don't know what'sgotten into me...."
Unfortunately, the teachers seemed to be thinking along thesame lines as Hermione. They piled so much homework on them that theEaster holidays weren't nearly as much fun as the Christmas ones. Itwas hard to relax with Hermione next to you reciting the twelve usesof dragon's blood or practicing wand movements. Moaning and yawning,Harry and Ron spent most of their free time in the library with her,trying to get through all their extra work.
"I'll never remember this," Ron burst out one afternoon, throwingdown his quill and looking longingly out of the library window. Itwas the first really fine day they'd had in months. The sky was aclear, forget-me-not blue, and there was a feeling in the air ofsummer coming.
Harry, who was looking up "Dittany" in One Thousand MagicalHerbs and Fungi, didn't look up until he heard Ron say, "Hagrid! Whatare you doing in the library?"
Hagrid shuffled into view, hiding something behind his back. Helooked very out of place in his moleskin overcoat.
"Jus' lookin'," he said, in a shifty voice that got theirinterest at once. "An' what're you lot up ter?" He looked suddenlysuspicious. "Yer not still lookin' fer Nicolas Flamel, are yeh?" "Oh,we found out who he is ages ago," said Ron impressively. "And weknow what that dog's guarding, it's a Sorcerer's St --"
"Shhhh!" Hagrid looked around quickly to see if anyone waslistening. "Don' go shoutin' about it, what's the matter with yeh?"
"There are a few things we wanted to ask you, as a matter offact," said Harry, "about what's guarding the Stone apart fromFluffy --"
"SHHHH!" said Hagrid again. "Listen - come an' see me later, I'mnot promisin' I'll tell yeh anythin', mind, but don' go rabbitin'about it in here, students aren' s'pposed ter know. They'll thinkI've told yeh --"
"See you later, then," said Harry.
Hagrid shuffled off.
"What was he hiding behind his back?" said Hermione thoughtfully.
"Do you think it had anything to do with the Stone?"
"I'm going to see what section he was in," said Ron, who'd hadenough of working. He came back a minute later with a pile of booksin his arms and slammed them down on the table.
"Dragons!" he whispered. "Hagrid was looking up stuff aboutdragons! Look at these: Dragon Species of Great Britain and Ireland;From Egg to Inferno, A Dragon Keeper's Guide."
"Hagrid's always wanted a dragon, he told me so the first timeI ever met him, " said Harry.
"But it's against our laws," said Ron. "Dragon breeding wasoutlawed by the Warlocks' Convention of 1709, everyone knowsthat. It's hard to stop Muggles from noticing us if we're keepingdragons in the back garden - anyway, you can't tame dragons, it'sdangerous. You should see the burns Charlie's got off wild onesin Romania."
"But there aren't wild dragons in Britain?" said Harry.
"Of course there are," said Ron. "Common Welsh Green andHebridean Blacks. The Ministry of Magic has a job hushing them up,I can tell you. Our kind have to keep putting spells on Muggleswho've spotted them, to make them forget."
"So what on earths Hagrid up to?" said Hermione.
When they knocked on the door of the gamekeeper's hut anhour later, they were surprised to see that all the curtains wereclosed. Hagrid called "Who is it?" before he let them in, and thenshut the door quickly behind them.
It was stifling hot inside. Even though it was such a warm day,there was a blazing fire in the grate. Hagrid made them tea andoffered them stoat sandwiches, which they refused.
"So -- yeh wanted to ask me somethin'?"
"Yes," said Harry. There was no point beating around thebush. "We were wondering if you could tell us what's guarding theSorcerer's Stone apart from Fluffy."
Hagrid frowned at him.
"0' course I cant, he said. "Number one, I don' knowmeself. Number two, yeh know too much already, so I wouldn' tellyeh if I could. That Stone's here fer a good reason. It Was almoststolen outta Gringotts - I s'ppose yeh've worked that out an'all? Beats me how yeh even know abou' Fluffy."
"Oh, come on, Hagrid, you might not want to tell us, but you doknow, you know everything that goes on round here," said Hermionein a warm, flattering voice. Hagrid's beard twitched and they couldtell he was smiling. "We only wondered who had done the guarding,really." Hermione went on. "We wondered who Dumbledore had trustedenough to help him, apart from you."
Hagrid's chest swelled at these last words. Harry and Ron beamedat Hermione.
"Well, I don' s'pose it could hurt ter tell yeh that... let'ssee... he borrowed Fluffy from me... then some o' the teachersdid enchantments... Professor Sprout -- Professor Flitwick --Professor McGonagall --" he ticked them off on his fingers,"Professor Quirrell -- an' Dumbledore himself did somethin', o'course. Hang on, I've forgotten someone. Oh yeah, Professor Snape."
"Snape?"
"Yeah -- yer not still on abou' that, are yeh? Look, Snapehelped protect the Stone, he's not about ter steal it."
Harry knew Ron and Hermione were thinking the same as he was. IfSnape had been in on protecting the Stone, it must have been easyto find out how the other teachers had guarded it. He probably kneweverything -- except, it seemed, Quirrell's spell and how to getpast Fluffy.
"You're the only one who knows how to get past Fluffy. aren'tyou, Hagrid?" said Harry anxiously. "And you wouldn't tell anyone,would you? Not even one of the teachers?"
"Not a soul knows except me an' Dumbledore," said Hagrid proudly.
"Well, that's something," Harry muttered to the others. "Hagrid,can we have a window open? I'm boiling."
"Can't, Harry, sorry," said Hagrid. Harry noticed him glanceat the fire. Harry looked at it, too.
"Hagrid -- what's that?"
But he already knew what it was. In the very heart of the fire,underneath the kettle, was a huge, black egg.
"Ah," said Hagrid, fiddling nervously with his beard, "That'ser..."
"Where did you get it, Hagrid?" said Ron, crouching over the fireto get a closer look at the egg. "It must've cost you a fortune."
"Won it," said Hagrid. "Las' night. I was down in thevillage havin' a few drinks an' got into a game o' cards with astranger. Think he was quite glad ter get rid of it, ter be honest."
"But what are you going to do with it when it's hatched?" saidHermione.
"Well, I've bin doin' some readin' , said Hagrid, pulling alarge book from under his pillow. "Got this outta the library --Dragon Breeding for Pleasure and Profit -- it's a bit outta date,o' course, but it's all in here. Keep the egg in the fire, 'causetheir mothers breathe on I em, see, an' when it hatches, feed iton a bucket o' brandy mixed with chicken blood every half hour. An'see here -- how ter recognize diff'rent eggs -- what I got there'sa Norwegian Ridgeback. They're rare, them."
He looked very pleased with himself, but Hermione didn't.
"Hagrid, you live in a wooden house," she said.
But Hagrid wasn't listening. He was humming merrily as he stokedthe fire.
So now they had something else to worry about: what might happento Hagrid if anyone found out he was hiding an illegal dragon in hishut. "Wonder what it's like to have a peaceful life," Ron sighed, asevening after evening they struggled through all the extra homeworkthey were getting. Hermione had now started making study schedulesfor Harry and Ron, too. It was driving them nuts.
Then, one breakfast time, Hedwig brought Harry another notefrom Hagrid. He had written only two words: It's hatching.
Ron wanted to skip Herbology and go straight down to thehut. Hermione wouldn't hear of it.
"Hermione, how many times in our lives are we going to see adragon hatching?"
"We've got lessons, we'll get into trouble, and that's nothingto what Hagrid's going to be in when someone finds out what he'sdoing --"
"Shut up!" Harry whispered.
Malfoy was only a few feet away and he had stopped deadto listen. How much had he heard? Harry didn't like the look onMalfoy's face at all.
Ron and Hermione argued all the way to Herbology and in the end,Hermione agreed to run down to Hagrid's with the other two duringmorning break. When the bell sounded from the castle at the endof their lesson, the three of them dropped their trowels at onceand hurried through the grounds to the edge of the forest. Hagridgreeted them, looking flushed and excited.
"It's nearly out." He ushered them inside.
The egg was lying on the table. There were deep cracks init. Something was moving inside; a funny clicking noise was comingfrom it.
They all drew their chairs up to the table and watched withbated breath.
All at once there was a scraping noise and the egg splitopen. The baby dragon flopped onto the table. It wasn't exactlypretty; Harry thought it looked like a crumpled, black umbrella. Itsspiny wings were huge compared to its skinny jet body, it had along snout with wide nostrils, the stubs of horns and bulging,orange eyes.
It sneezed. A couple of sparks flew out of its snout.
"Isn't he beautiful?" Hagrid murmured. He reached out a handto stroke the dragon's head. It snapped at his fingers, showingpointed fangs.
"Bless him, look, he knows his mommy!" said Hagrid.
"Hagrid," said Hermione, "how fast do Norwegian Ridgebacksgrow, exactly?"
Hagrid was about to answer when the color suddenly drained fromhis face -- he leapt to his feet and ran to the window.
"What's the matter?"
"Someone was lookin' through the gap in the curtains -- it'sa kid -- he's runnin' back up ter the school."
Harry bolted to the door and looked out. Even at a distancethere was no mistaking him.
Malfoy had seen the dragon.
Something about the smile lurking on Malfoy's face during thenext week made Harry, Ron, and Hermione very nervous. They spentmost of their free time in Hagrid's darkened hut, trying to reasonwith him.
"Just let him go," Harry urged. "Set him free."
"I can't," said Hagrid. "He's too little. He'd die."
They looked at the dragon. It had grown three times in length injust a week. Smoke kept furling out of its nostrils. Hagrid hadn'tbeen doing his gamekeeping duties because the dragon was keepinghim so busy. There were empty brandy bottles and chicken feathersall over the floor.
"I've decided to call him Norbert," said Hagrid, lookingat the dragon with misty eyes. "He really knows me now,watch. Norbert! Norbert! Where's Mommy?"
"He's lost his marbles," Ron muttered in Harry's ear.
"Hagrid," said Harry loudly, "give it two weeks and Norbert'sgoing to be as long as your house. Malfoy could go to Dumbledoreat any moment."
Hagrid bit his lip.
"I -- I know I can't keep him forever, but I can't jus' dump him,I can't."
Harry suddenly turned to Ron. Charlie, he said.
"You're losing it, too," said Ron. "I'm Ron, remember?"
"No -- Charlie -- your brother, Charlie. In Romania. Studyingdragons. We could send Norbert to him. Charlie can take care ofhim and then put him back in the wild!"
"Brilliant!" said Ron. "How about it, Hagrid?"
And in the end, Hagrid agreed that they could send -an owl toCharlie to ask him.
The following week dragged by. Wednesday night found Hermioneand Harry sitting alone in the common room, long after everyoneelse had gone to bed. The clock on the wall had just
chimed midnight when the portrait hole burst open. Ron appearedout of nowhere as he pulled off Harry's invisibility cloak. He hadbeen down at Hagrid's hut, helping him feed Norbert, who was noweating dead rats by the crate.
"It bit me!" he said, showing them his hand, which was wrappedin a bloody handkerchief. "I'm not going to be able to hold a quillfor a week. I tell you, that dragon's the most horrible animal I'veever met, but the way Hagrid goes on about it, you'd think it wasa fluffy little bunny rabbit. When it bit me he told me off forfrightening it. And when I left, he was singing it a lullaby."
There was a tap on the dark window.
"It's Hedwig!" said Harry, hurrying to let her in. "She'll haveCharlie's answer!"
The three of them put their heads together to read the note.
Dear Ron,
How are you? Thanks for the letter -- I'd be glad to take theNorwegian Ridgeback, but it won't be easy getting him here. I thinkthe best thing will be to send him over with some friends of minewho are coming to visit me next week. Trouble is, they mustn't beseen carrying an illegal dragon.
Could you get the Ridgeback up the tallest tower at midnighton Saturday? They can meet you there and take him away while it'sstill dark.
Send me an answer as soon as possible.
Love,
Charlie
They looked at one another.
"We've got the invisibility cloak," said Harry. "It shouldn'tbe too difficult -- I think the cloaks big enough to cover two ofus and Norbert."
It was a mark of how bad the last week had been that the othertwo agreed with him. Anything to get rid of Norbert -- and Malfoy.
There was a hitch. By the next morning, Ron's bitten hand hadswollen to twice its usual size. He didn't know whether it was safeto go to Madam Pomfrey -- would she recognize a dragon bite? Bythe afternoon, though, he had no choice. The cut had turned a nastyshade of green. It looked as if Norbert's fangs were poisonous.
Harry and Hermione rushed up to the hospital wing at the endof the day to find Ron in a terrible state in bed.
"It's not just my hand," he whispered, "although that feelslike it's about to fall off. Malfoy told Madam Pomfrey he wantedto borrow one of my books so he could come and have a good laugh atme. He kept threatening to tell her what really bit me -- I've toldher it was a dog, but I don't think she believes me -I shouldn'thave hit him at the Quidditch match, that's why he's doing this."
Harry and Hermione tried to calm Ron down.
"It'll all be over at midnight on Saturday," said Hermione,but this didn't soothe Ron at all. On the contrary, he sat boltupright and broke into a sweat.
"Midnight on Saturday!" he said in a hoarse voice. "Oh no ohno -- I've just remembered -- Charlie's letter was in that bookMalfoy took, he's going to know we're getting rid of Norbert."
Harry and Hermione didn't get a chance to answer. Madam Pomfreycame over at that moment and made them leave, saying Ron neededsleep.
"It's too late to change the plan now," Harry told Hermione. "Wehaven't got time to send Charlie another owl, and this could beour only chance to get rid of Norbert. We'll have to risk it. Andwe have got the invisibility cloak, Malfoy doesn't know about that."
They found Fang, the boarhound, sitting outside with a bandagedtail when they went to tell Hagrid, who opened a window to talkto them.
"I won't let you in," he puffed. "Norbert's at a tricky stage --nothin' I can't handle."
When they told him about Charlie's letter, his eyes filled withtears, although that might have been because Norbert had just bittenhim on the leg.
"Aargh! It's all right, he only got my boot -- jus' playin' --he's only a baby, after all."
The baby banged its tail on the wall, making the windowsrattle. Harry and Hermione walked back to the castle feeling Saturdaycouldn't come quickly enough.
They would have felt sorry for Hagrid when the time came forhim to say good-bye to Norbert if they hadn't been so worriedabout what they had to do. It was a very dark, cloudy night, andthey were a bit late arriving at Hagrid's hut because they'd hadto wait for Peeves to get out of their way in the entrance hall,where he'd been playing tennis against the wall. Hagrid had Norbertpacked and ready in a large crate.
"He's got lots o' rats an' some brandy fer the journey," saidHagrid in a muffled voice. "An' I've packed his teddy bear in casehe gets lonely."
From inside the crate came ripping noises that sounded to Harryas though the teddy was having his head torn off.
"Bye-bye, Norbert!" Hagrid sobbed, as Harry and Hermione coveredthe crate with the invisibility cloak and stepped underneath itthemselves. "Mommy will never forget you!"
How they managed to get the crate back up to the castle,they never knew. Midnight ticked nearer as they heaved Norbertup the marble staircase in the entrance hall and along the darkcorridors. UP another staircase, then another -- even one of Harry'sshortcuts didn't make the work much easier.
"Nearly there!" Harry panted as they reached the corridorbeneath the tallest tower.
Then a sudden movement ahead of them made them almost drop thecrate. Forgetting that they were already invisible, they shrank intothe shadows, staring at the dark outlines of two people grapplingwith each other ten feet away. A lamp flared.
Professor McGonagall, in a tartan bathrobe and a hair net,had Malfoy by the ear.
"Detention!" she shouted. "And twenty points fromSlytherin! Wandering around in the middle of the night, how dareyou --"
"You don't understand, Professor. Harry Potter's coming --he's got a dragon!"
"What utter rubbish! How dare you tell such lies! Come on --I shall see Professor Snape about you, Malfoy!"
The steep spiral staircase up to the top of the tower seemedthe easiest thing in the world after that. Not until they'd steppedout into the cold night air did they throw off the cloak, glad tobe able to breathe properly again. Hermione did a sort of jig.
"Malfoy's got detention! I could sing!"
"Don't," Harry advised her.
Chuckling about Malfoy, they waited, Norbert thrashing about inhis crate. About ten minutes later, four broomsticks came swoopingdown out of the darkness.
Charlie's friends were a cheery lot. They showed Harry andHermione the harness they'd rigged up, so they could suspend Norbertbetween them. They all helped buckle Norbert safely into it andthen Harry and Hermione shook hands with the others and thankedthem very much.
At last, Norbert was going... going... gone.
They slipped back down the spiral staircase, their hearts aslight as their hands, now that Norbert was off them. No more dragon-- Malfoy in detention -- what could spoil their happiness?
The answer to that was waiting at the foot of the stairs. Asthey stepped into the corridor, Filch's face loomed suddenly outof the darkness.
"Well, well, well," he whispered, "we are in trouble."
They'd left the invisibility cloak on top of the tower.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
THE FORIBIDDEN FOREST
Things couldn't have been worse.
Filch took them down to Professor McGonagall's study on thefirst floor, where they sat and waited without saying a word to eachother. Hermione was trembling. Excuses, alibis, and wild cover- upstories chased each other around Harry's brain, each more feeblethan the last. He couldn't see how they were going to get out oftrouble this time. They were cornered. How could they have been sostupid as to forget the cloak? There was no reason on earth thatProfessor McGonagall would accept for their being out of bed andcreeping around the school in the dead of night, let alone beingup the tallest astronomy tower, which was out-of-bounds except forclasses. Add Norbert and the invisibility cloak, and they might aswell be packing their bags already.
Had Harry thought that things couldn't have been worse? He waswrong. When Professor McGonagall appeared, she was leading Neville.
"Harry!" Neville burst Out, the moment he saw the other two. "Iwas trying to find you to warn you, I heard Malfoy saying he wasgoing to catch you, he said you had a drag --"
Harry shook his head violently to shut Neville up, but ProfessorMcGonagall had seen. She looked more likely to breathe fire thanNorbert as she towered over the three of them.
"I would never have believed it of any of you. Mr. Filchsays you were up in the astronomy tower. It's one o'clock in themorning. Explain yourselves."
It was the first time Hermione had ever failed to answer ateacher's question. She was staring at her slippers, as still asa statue.
"I think I've got a good idea of what's been going on," saidProfessor McGonagall. "It doesn't take a genius to work it out. Youfed Draco Malfoy some cock-and-bull story about a dragon, tryingto get him out of bed and into trouble. I've already caught him. Isuppose you think it's funny that Longbottom here heard the storyand believed it, too?"
Harry caught Neville's eye and tried to tell him without wordsthat this wasn't true, because Neville was looking stunned andhurt. Poor, blundering Neville -- Harry knew what it must have costhim to try and find them in the dark, to warn them.
"I'm disgusted," said Professor McGonagall. "Four students outof bed in one night! I've never heard of such a thing before! You,Miss Granger, I thought you had more sense. As for you, Mr. Potter,I thought Gryffindor meant more to you than this. All three of youwill receive detentions -- yes, you too, Mr. Longbottom, nothinggives you the right to walk around school at night, especiallythese days, it's very dangerous -- and fifty points will be takenfrom Gryffindor."
"Fifty?" Harry gasped -- they would lose the lead, the leadhe'd won in the last Quidditch match.
"Fifty points each," said Professor McGonagall, breathingheavily through her long, pointed nose.
"Professor -- please
"You can't --"
"Don't tell me what I can and can't do, Potter. Now get backto bed, all of you. I've never been more ashamed of Gryffindorstudents."
A hundred and fifty points lost. That put Gryffindor in lastplace. In one night, they'd ruined any chance Gryffindor had hadfor the house cup. Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped outof his stomach. How could they ever make up for this?
Harry didn't sleep all night. He could hear Neville sobbinginto his pillow for what seemed like hours. Harry couldn't thinkof anything to say to comfort him. He knew Neville, like himself,was dreading the dawn. What would happen when the rest of Gryffindorfound out what they'd done?
At first, Gryffindors passing the giant hourglasses that recordedthe house points the next day thought there'd been a mistake. Howcould they suddenly have a hundred and fifty points fewer thanyesterday? And then the story started to spread: Harry Potter, thefamous Harry Potter, their hero of two Quidditch matches, had lo stthem all those points, him and a couple of other stupid first years.
From being one of the most popular and admired people at theschool, Harry was suddenly the most hated. Even Ravenclaws andHufflepuffs turned on him, because everyone had been longing tosee Slytherin lose the house cup. Everywhere Harry went, peoplepointed and didn't trouble to lower their voices as they insultedhim. Slytherins, on the other hand, clapped as he walked past them,whistling and cheering, "Thanks Potter, we owe you one!"
Only Ron stood by him.
"They'll all forget this in a few weeks. Fred and George havelost loads of points in all the time they've been here, and peoplestill like them."
"They've never lost a hundred and fifty points in one go,though, have they?" said Harry miserably.
"Well -- no," Ron admitted.
It was a bit late to repair the damage, but Harry swore tohimself not to meddle in things that weren't his business fromnow on. He'd had it with sneaking around and spying. He felt soashamed of himself that he went to Wood and offered to resign fromthe Quidditch team.
"Resign?" Wood thundered. "What good'll that do? How are wegoing to get any points back if we can't win at Quidditch?"
But even Quidditch had lost its fun. The rest of the teamwouldn't speak to Harry during practice, and if they had to speakabout him, they called him "the Seeker."
Hermione and Neville were suffering, too. They didn't have asbad a time as Harry, because they weren't as well-known, but nobodywould speak to them, either. Hermione had stopped drawing attentionto herself in class, keeping her head down and working in silence.
Harry was almost glad that the exams weren't far away. All thestudying he had to do kept his mind off his misery. He, Ron, andHermione kept to themselves, working late into the night, tryingto remember the ingredients in complicated potions, learn charmsand spells by heart, memorize the dates of magical discoveries andgoblin rebellions....
Then, about a week before the exams were due to start, Harry'snew resolution not to interfere in anything that didn't concern himwas put to an unexpected test. Walking back from the library on hisown one afternoon, he heard somebody whimpering from a classroomup ahead. As he drew closer, he heard Quirrell's voice.
"No -- no -- not again, please --"
It sounded as though someone was threatening him. Harry movedcloser.
"All right -- all right --" he heard Quirrell sob.
Next second, Quirrell came hurrying out of the classroomstraightening his turban. He was pale and looked as though he wasabout to cry. He strode out of sight; Harry didn't think Quirrellhad even noticed him. He waited until Quirrell's footsteps haddisappeared, then peered into the classroom. It was empty, buta door stood ajar at the other end. Harry was halfway toward itbefore he remembered what he'd promised himself about not meddling.
All the same, he'd have gambled twelve Sorcerer's Stones thatSnape had just left the room, and from what Harry had just heard,Snape would be walking with a new spring in his step -- Quirrellseemed to have given in at last.
Harry went back to the library, where Hermione was testing Ronon Astronomy. Harry told them what he'd heard.
"Snape's done it, then!" said Ron. "If Quirrell's told him howto break his Anti-Dark Force spell --"
"There's still Fluffy, though," said Hermione.
"Maybe Snape's found out how to get past him without askingHagrid," said Ron, looking up at the thousands of books surroundingthem. "I bet there's a book somewhere in here telling you how toget past a giant three-headed dog. So what do we do, Harry?"
The light of adventure was kindling again in Ron's eyes, butHermione answered before Harry could.
"Go to Dumbledore. That's what we should have done ages ago. Ifwe try anything ourselves we'll be thrown out for sure."
"But we've got no proof!" said Harry. "Quirrell's too scared toback us up. Snape's only got to say he doesn't know how the trollgot in at Halloween and that he was nowhere near the third floor --who do you think they'll believe, him or us? It's not exactly asecret we hate him, Dumbledore'll think we made it up to get himsacked. Filch wouldn't help us if his life depended on it, he'stoo friendly with Snape, and the more students get thrown out,the better, he'll think. And don't forget, we're not supposed toknow about the Stone or Fluffy. That'll take a lot of explaining."
Hermione looked convinced, but Ron didn't.
"If we just do a bit of poking around --"
"No," said Harry flatly, "we've done enough poking around."
He pulled a map of Jupiter toward him and started to learn thenames of its moons.
The following morning, notes were delivered to Harry, Hermione,and Neville at the breakfast table. They were all the same:
Your detention will take place at eleven o'clock tonight. MeetMr. Filch in the entrance hall.
Professor McGonagall Harry had forgotten they still haddetentions to do in the furor over the points they'd lost. He halfexpected Hermione to complain that this was a whole night of studyinglost, but she didn't say a word. Like Harry, she felt they deservedwhat they'd got.
At eleven o'clock that night, they said good-bye to Ron in thecommon room and went down to the entrance hall with Neville. Filchwas already there -- and so was Malfoy. Harry had also forgottenthat Malfoy had gotten a detention, too.
"Follow me," said Filch, lighting a lamp and leading themoutside.
I bet you'll think twice about breaking a school rule again,won't you, eh?" he said, leering at them. "Oh yes... hard work andpain are the best teachers if you ask me.... It's just a pity theylet the old punishments die out... hang you by your wrists from theceiling for a few days, I've got the chains still in my office, keep'em well oiled in case they're ever needed.... Right, off we go, anddon't think of running off, now, it'll be worse for you if you do."
They marched off across the dark grounds. Neville keptsniffing. Harry wondered what their punishment was going to be. Itmust be something really horrible, or Filch wouldn't be soundingso delighted.
The moon was bright, but clouds scudding across it kept throwingthem into darkness. Ahead, Harry could see the lighted windows ofHagrid's hut. Then they heard a distant shout.
"Is that you, Filch? Hurry up, I want ter get started."
Harry's heart rose; if they were going to be working with Hagridit wouldn't be so bad. His relief must have showed in his -face,because Filch said, "I suppose you think you'll be enjoying yourselfwith that oaf? Well, think again, boy -- it's into the forest you'regoing and I'm much mistaken if you'll all come out in one piece."
At this, Neville let out a little moan, and Malfoy stopped deadin his tracks.
"The forest?" he repeated, and he didn't sound quite as coolas usual. "We can't go in there at night -- there's all sorts ofthings in there -- werewolves, I heard."
Neville clutched the sleeve of Harry's robe and made a chokingnoise.
"That's your problem, isn't it?" said Filch, his voice crackingwith glee. "Should've thought of them werewolves before you got introuble, shouldn't you?"
Hagrid came striding toward them out of the dark, Fang at hisheel. He was carrying his large crossbow, and a quiver of arrowshung over his shoulder.
"Abou' time," he said. "I bin waitin' fer half an houralready. All right, Harry, Hermione?"
"I shouldn't be too friendly to them, Hagrid," said Filch coldly,they're here to be punished, after all."
"That's why yer late, is it?" said Hagrid, frowning atFilch. "Bin lecturin' them, eh? 'Snot your place ter do that. Yeh'vedone yer bit, I'll take over from here."
"I'll be back at dawn," said Filch, "for what's left of them,"he added nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle,his lamp bobbing away in the darkness.
Malfoy now turned to Hagrid.
"I'm not going in that forest, he said, and Harry was pleasedto hear the note of panic in his voice.
"Yeh are if yeh want ter stay at Hogwarts," said Hagridfiercely. "Yeh've done wrong an' now yehve got ter pay fer it."
"But this is servant stuff, it's not for students to do. Ithought we'd be copying lines or something, if my father knew Iwas doing this, he'd
tell yer that's how it is at Hogwarts," Hagrid growled. "Copyin'lines! What good's that ter anyone? Yeh'll do summat useful orYeh'll get out. If yeh think yer father'd rather you were expelled,then get back off ter the castle an' pack. Go on"'
Malfoy didn't move. He looked at Hagrid furiously, but thendropped his gaze.
"Right then," said Hagrid, "now, listen carefully, 'cause it'sdangerous what we're gonna do tonight, an' I don' want no one takin'risks. Follow me over here a moment."
He led them to the very edge of the forest. Holding his lamp uphigh, he pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappearedinto the thick black trees. A light breeze lifted their hair asthey looked into the forest.
"Look there," said Hagrid, "see that stuff shinin' on theground? Silvery stuff? That's unicorn blood. There's a unicornin there bin hurt badly by summat. This is the second time in aweek. I found one dead last Wednesday. We're gonna try an' findthe poor thing. We might have ter put it out of its misery."
"And what if whatever hurt the unicorn finds us first?" saidMalfoy, unable to keep the fear out of his voice.
"There's nothin' that lives in the forest that'll hurt yeh ifyer with me or Fang," said Hagrid. "An' keep ter the path. Right,now, we're gonna split inter two parties an' follow the trail indiff'rent directions. There's blood all over the place, it must'vebin staggerin' around since last night at least."
"I want Fang," said Malfoy quickly, looking at Fang's long teeth.
"All right, but I warn yeh, he's a coward," said Hagrid. "So me, Harry, an' Hermione'll go one way an' Draco, Neville, an'Fang'll go the other. Now, if any of us finds the unicorn, we'llsend up green sparks, right? Get yer wands out an' practice now --that's it -- an' if anyone gets in trouble, send up red sparks,an' we'll all come an' find yeh -- so, be careful -- let's go."
The forest was black and silent. A little way into it theyreached a fork in the earth path, and Harry, Hermione, and Hagridtook the left path while Malfoy, Neville, and Fang took the right.
They walked in silence, their eyes on the ground. Every nowand then a ray of moonlight through the branches above lit a spotof silver-blue blood on the fallen leaves.
Harry saw that Hagrid looked very worried.
"Could a werewolf be killing the unicorns?" Harry asked.
"Not fast enough," said Hagrid. "It's not easy ter catch aunicorn, they're powerful magic creatures. I never knew one ter behurt before."
They walked past a mossy tree stump. Harry could hear runningwater; there must be a stream somewhere close by. There were stillspots of unicorn blood here and there along the winding path.
"You all right, Hermione?" Hagrid whispered. "Don' worry, itcan't've gone far if it's this badly hurt, an' then we'll be ableter -- GET BEHIND THAT TREE!"
Hagrid seized Harry and Hermione and hoisted them off thepath behind a towering oak. He pulled out an arrow and fitted itinto his crossbow, raising it, ready to fire. The three of themlistened. Something was slithering over dead leaves nearby: itsounded like a cloak trailing along the ground. Hagrid was squintingup the dark path, but after a few seconds, the sound faded away.
"I knew it, " he murmured. "There's summat in here that shouldn'be."
"A werewolf?" Harry suggested.
"That wasn' no werewolf an' it wasn' no unicorn, neither,"said Hagrid grimly. "Right, follow me, but careful, now."
They walked more slowly, ears straining for the faintestsound. Suddenly, in a clearing ahead, something definitely moved.
"Who's there?" Hagrid called. "Show yerself -- I'm armed!"
And into the clearing came -- was it a man, or a horse? Tothe waist, a man, with red hair and beard, but below that was ahorse's gleaming chestnut body with a long, reddish tail. Harryand Hermione's jaws dropped.
"Oh, it's you, Ronan," said Hagrid in relief. "How are yeh?"
He walked forward and shook the centaur's hand.
"Good evening to you, Hagrid," said Ronan. He had a deep,sorrowful voice. "Were you going to shoot me?"
"Can't be too careful, Ronan," said Hagrid, patting hiscrossbow. "There's summat bad loose in this forest. This isHarry Potter an' Hermione Granger, by the way. Students up at theschool. An' this is Ronan, you two. He's a centaur.))
"We'd noticed," said Hermione faintly.
"Good evening," said Ronan. "Students, are you? And do youlearn much, up at the school?"
"Erm --"
"A bit," said Hermione timidly.
"A bit. Well, that's something." Ronan sighed. He flung backhis head and stared at the sky. "Mars is bright tonight."
"Yeah," said Hagrid, glancing up, too. "Listen, I'm gladwe've run inter yeh, Ronan, 'cause there's a unicorn bin hurt --you seen anythin'?"
Ronan didn't answer immediately. He stared unblinkingly upward,then sighed again.
"Always the innocent are the first victims," he said. "So ithas been for ages past, so it is now."
"Yeah," said Hagrid, "but have yeh seen anythin', Ronan? Anythin'unusual?"
"Mars is bright tonight," Ronan repeated, while Hagrid watchedhim impatiently. "Unusually bright."
"Yeah, but I was meanin' anythin' unusual a bit nearer home,said Hagrid. "So yeh haven't noticed anythin' strange?"
Yet again, Ronan took a while to answer. At last, he said,"The forest hides many secrets."
A movement in the trees behind Ronan made Hagrid raise his bowagain, but it was only a second centaur, black-haired and -bodiedand wilder-looking than Ronan.
"Hullo, Bane," said Hagrid. "All right?"
"Good evening, Hagrid, I hope you are well?"
"Well enough. Look, I've jus' bin askin' Ronan, you seen anythin'odd in here lately? There's a unicorn bin injured -- would yeh knowanythin' about it?"
Bane walked over to stand next to Ronan. He looked skyward. "Marsis bright tonight," he said simply.
"We've heard," said Hagrid grumpily. "Well, if either of youdo see anythin', let me know, won't yeh? We'll be off, then."
Harry and Hermione followed him out of the clearing, staring overtheir shoulders at Ronan and Bane until the trees blocked their view.
"Never," said Hagrid irritably, "try an' get a straight answerout of a centaur. Ruddy stargazers. Not interested in anythin'closer'n the moon."
"Are there many of them in here?" asked Hermione.
"Oh, a fair few... Keep themselves to themselves mostly, butthey're good enough about turnin' up if ever I want a word. They'redeep, mind, centaurs... they know things... jus' don' let on much."
"D'you think that was a centaur we heard earlier?" said Harry.
"Did that sound like hooves to you? Nah, if yeh ask me, thatwas what's bin killin' the unicorns -- never heard anythin' likeit before."
They walked on through the dense, dark trees. Harry kept lookingnervously over his shoulder. He had the nasty feeling they werebeing watched. He was very glad they had Hagrid and his crossbowwith them. They had just passed a bend in the path when Hermionegrabbed Hagrid's arm.
"Hagrid! Look! Red sparks, the others are in trouble!"
"You two wait here!" Hagrid shouted. "Stay on the path, I'llcome back for yeh!"
They heard him crashing away through the undergrowth and stoodlooking at each other, very scared, until they couldn't hear anythingbut the rustling of leaves around them.
"You don't think they've been hurt, do you?" whispered Hermione.
"I don't care if Malfoy has, but if something's gotNeville... it's our fault he's here in the first place."
The minutes dragged by. Their ears seemed sharper thanusual. Harry's seemed to be picking up every sigh of the wind,every cracking twig. What was going on? Where were the others?
At last, a great crunching noise announced Hagrid'sreturn. Malfoy, Neville, and Fang were with him. Hagrid wasfuming. Malfoy, it seemed, had sneaked up behind Neville and grabbedhim as a joke. Neville had panicked and sent up the sparks.
"We'll be lucky ter catch anythin' now, with the racket you twowere makin'. Right, we're changin' groups -- Neville, you stay withme an' Hermione, Harry, you go with Fang an' this idiot. I'm sorry,"Hagrid added in a whisper to Harry, "but he'll have a harder timefrightenin' you, an' we've gotta get this done."
So Harry set off into the heart of the forest with Malfoy andFang. They walked for nearly half an hour, deeper and deeper into theforest, until the path became almost impossible to follow because thetrees were so thick. Harry thought the blood seemed to be gettingthicker. There were splashes on the roots of a tree, as though thepoor creature had been thrashing around in pain close by. Harry couldsee a clearing ahead, through the tangled branches of an ancient oak.
"Look --" he murmured, holding out his arm to stop Malfoy.
Something bright white was gleaming on the ground. They inchedcloser.
It was the unicorn all right, and it was dead. Harry had neverseen anything so beautiful and sad. Its long, slender legs werestuck out at odd angles where it had fallen and its mane was spreadpearly-white on the dark leaves.
Harry had taken one step toward it when a slithering soundmade him freeze where he stood. A bush on the edge of the clearingquivered.... Then, out of the shadows, a hooded figure came crawlingacross the ground like some stalking beast. Harry, Malfoy, and Fangstood transfixed. The cloaked figure reached the unicorn, loweredits head over the wound in the animal's side, and began to drinkits blood.
"AAAAAAAAAARGH!"
Malfoy let out a terrible scream and bolted -- so did Fang. Thehooded figure raised its head and looked right at Harry -- unicornblood was dribbling down its front. It got to its feet and cameswiftly toward Harry -- he couldn't move for fear.
Then a pain like he'd never felt before pierced his head; itwas as though his scar were on fire. Half blinded, he staggeredbackward. He heard hooves behind him, galloping, and somethingjumped clean over Harry, charging at the figure.
The pain in Harry's head was so bad he fell to his knees. Ittook a minute or two to pass. When he looked up, the figure hadgone. A centaur was standing over him, not Ronan or Bane; this onelooked younger; he had white-blond hair and a palomino body.
"Are you all right?" said the centaur, pulling Harry to his feet.
"Yes -- thank you -- what was that?"
The centaur didn't answer. He had astonishingly blue eyes, likepale sapphires. He looked carefully at Harry, his eyes lingeringon the scar that stood out, livid, on Harry's forehead.
"You are the Potter boy," he said. "You had better get backto Hagrid. The forest is not safe at this time -- especially foryou. Can you ride? It will be quicker this way.
"My name is Firenze," he added, as he lowered himself on tohis front legs so that Harry could clamber onto his back.
There was suddenly a sound of more galloping from the other sideof the clearing. Ronan and Bane came bursting through the trees,their flanks heaving and sweaty.
"Firenze!" Bane thundered. "What are you doing? You have ahuman on your back! Have you no shame? Are you a common mule?"
"Do you realize who this is?" said Firenze. "This is the Potterboy. The quicker he leaves this forest, the better."
"What have you been telling him?" growled Bane. "Remember,Firenze, we are sworn not to set ourselves against the heavens. Havewe not read what is to come in the movements of the planets?"
Ronan pawed the ground nervously. "I'm sure Firenze thought hewas acting for the best, " he said in his gloomy voice.
Bane kicked his back legs in anger.
"For the best! What is that to do with us? Centaurs are concernedwith what has been foretold! It is not our business to run aroundlike donkeys after stray humans in our forest!"
Firenze suddenly reared on to his hind legs in anger, so thatHarry had to grab his shoulders to stay on.
"Do you not see that unicorn?" Firenze bellowed at Bane. "Doyou not understand why it was killed? Or have the planets not letyou in on that secret? I set myself against what is lurking in thisforest, Bane, yes, with humans alongside me if I must."
And Firenze whisked around; with Harry clutching on as besthe could, they plunged off into the trees, leaving Ronan and Banebehind them.
Harry didn't have a clue what was going on.
"Why's Bane so angry?" he asked. "What was that thing you savedme from, anyway?"
Firenze slowed to a walk, warned Harry to keep his headbowed in case of low-hanging branches, but did not answer Harry'squestion. They made their way through the trees in silence forso long that Harry thought Firenze didn't want to talk to himanymore. They were passing through a particularly dense patch oftrees, however, when Firenze suddenly stopped.
"Harry Potter, do you know what unicorn blood is used -for?"
"No," said Harry, startled by the odd question. "We've onlyused the horn and tail hair in Potions."
"That is because it is a monstrous thing, to slay a unicorn,"said Firenze. "Only one who has nothing to lose, and everythingto gain, would commit such a crime. The blood of a unicorn willkeep you alive, even if you are an inch from death, but at aterrible price. You have slain something pure and defenseless tosave yourself, and you will have but a half-life, a cursed life,from the moment the blood touches your lips."
Harry stared at the back of Firenze's head, which was dappledsilver in the moonlight.
"But who'd be that desperate?" he wondered aloud. "If you'regoing to be cursed forever, deaths better, isn't it?"
"It is," Firenze agreed, "unless all you need is to stay alivelong enough to drink something else -- something that will bringyou back to full strength and power -- something that will meanyou can never die. Mr. Potter, do you know what is hidden in theschool at this very moment?"
"The Sorcerer's Stone! Of course -- the Elixir of Life! But Idon't understand who --"
"Can you think of nobody who has waited many years to returnto power, who has clung to life, awaiting their chance?"
It was as though an iron fist had clenched suddenly aroundHarry's heart. Over the rustling of the trees, he seemed to hearonce more what Hagrid had told him on the night they had met:"Some say he died. Codswallop, in my opinion. Dunno if he had enoughhuman left in him to die."
"Do you mean," Harry croaked, "that was Vol-"
"Harry! Harry, are you all right?"
Hermione was running toward them down the path, Hagrid puffingalong behind her.
"I'm fine," said Harry, hardly knowing what he was saying. "Theunicorn's dead, Hagrid, it's in that clearing back there."
"This is where I leave you," Firenze murmured as Hagrid hurriedoff to examine the unicorn. "You are safe now."
Harry slid off his back.
"Good luck, Harry Potter," said Firenze. "The planets have beenread wrongly before now, even by centaurs. I hope this is one ofthose times."
He turned and cantered back into the depths of the forest,leaving Harry shivering behind him.
Ron had fallen asleep in the dark common room, waiting forthem to return. He shouted something about Quidditch fouls whenHarry roughly shook him awake. In a matter of seconds, though,he was wide-eyed as Harry began to tell him and Hermione what hadhappened in the forest.
Harry couldn't sit down. He paced up and down in front of thefire. He was still shaking.
"Snape wants the stone for Voldemort... and Voldemort's waitingin the forest... and all this time we thought Snape just wanted toget rich...."
"Stop saying the name!" said Ron in a terrified whisper, as ifhe thought Voldemort could hear them.
Harry wasn't listening.
"Firenze saved me, but he shouldn't have done so.... Bane wasfurious... he was talking about interfering with what the planetssay is going to happen.... They must show that Voldemort's comingback.... Bane thinks Firenze should have let Voldemort kill me.... Isuppose that's written in the stars as well."
"Will you stop saying the name!" Ron hissed.
"So all I've got to wait for now is Snape to steal the Stone,"Harry went on feverishly, "then Voldemort will be able to come andfinish me off... Well, I suppose Bane'll be happy."
Hermione looked very frightened, but she had a word of comfort.
"Harry, everyone says Dumbledore's the only one You-Know-Whowas ever afraid of With Dumbledore around, You-Know-Who won'ttouch you. Anyway, who says the centaurs are right? It sounds likefortune-telling to me, and Professor McGonagall says that's a veryimprecise branch of magic."
The sky had turned light before they stopped talking. They wentto bed exhausted, their throats sore. But the night's surprisesweren't over.
When Harry pulled back his sheets, he found his invisibilitycloak folded neatly underneath them. There was a note pinned to it:
Just in case.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
THROUGH THE TRAPDOOR
In years to come, Harry would never quite remember how he hadmanaged to get through his exams when he half expected Voldemort tocome bursting through the door at any moment. Yet the days crept by,and there could be no doubt that Fluffy was still alive and wellbehind the locked door.
It was sweltering hot, especially in the large classroom wherethey did their written papers. They had been given special, newquills for the exams, which had been bewitched with an AntiCheatingspell.
They had practical exams as well. Professor Flitwick called themone by one into his class to see if they could make a pineappletapdance across a desk. Professor McGonagall watched them turna mouse into a snuffbox -- points were given for how pretty thesnuffbox was, but taken away if it had whiskers. Snape made themall nervous, breathing down their necks while they tried to rememberhow to make a Forgetfulness potion.
Harry did the best he could, trying to ignore the stabbingpains in his forehead, which had been bothering him ever since histrip into the forest. Neville thought Harry had a bad case of examnerves because Harry couldn't sleep, but the truth was that Harrykept being woken by his old nightmare, except that it was now worsethan ever because there was a hooded figure dripping blood in it.
Maybe it was because they hadn't seen what Harry had seen inthe forest, or because they didn't have scars burning on theirforeheads, but Ron and Hermione didn't seem as worried about theStone as Harry. The idea of Voldemort certainly scared them, buthe didn't keep visiting them in dreams, and they were so busy withtheir studying they didn't have much time to fret about what Snapeor anyone else might be up to.
Their very last exam was History of Magic. One hour of answeringquestions about batty old wizards who'd invented selfstirringcauldrons and they'd be free, free for a whole wonderful week untiltheir exam results came out. When the ghost of Professor Binnstold them to put down their quills and roll up their parchment,Harry couldn't help cheering with the rest.
"That was far easier than I thought it would be," said Hermioneas they joined the crowds flocking out onto the sunny grounds. "Ineedn't have learned about the 1637 Werewolf Code of Conduct orthe uprising of Elfric the Eager."
Hermione always liked to go through their exam papers afterward,but Ron said this made him feel ill, so they wandered down to thelake and flopped under a tree. The Weasley twins and Lee Jordanwere tickling the tentacles of a giant squid, which was baskingin the warm shallows. "No more studying," Ron sighed happily,stretching out on the grass. "You could look more cheerful, Harry,we've got a week before we find out how badly we've done, there'sno need to worry yet."
Harry was rubbing his forehead.
"I wish I knew what this means!" he burst out angrily. "My scarkeeps hurting -- it's happened before, but never as often as this."
"Go to Madam Pomfrey," Hermione suggested.
"I'm not ill," said Harry. "I think it's a warning... it meansdanger's coming...."
Ron couldn't get worked up, it was too hot.
"Harry, relax, Hermione's right, the Stone's safe as long asDumbledore's around. Anyway, we've never had any proof Snape foundout how to get past Fluffy. He nearly had his leg ripped off once,he's not going to try it again in a hurry. And Neville will playQuidditch for England before Hagrid lets Dumbledore down."
Harry nodded, but he couldn't shake off a lurking feeling thatthere was something he'd forgotten to do, something important. Whenhe tried to explain this, Hermione said, "That's just the exams. Iwoke up last night and was halfway through my Transfiguration notesbefore I remembered we'd done that one."
Harry was quite sure the unsettled feeling didn't have anythingto do with work, though. He watched an owl flutter toward the schoolacross the bright blue sky, a note clamped in its mouth. Hagridwas the only one who ever sent him letters. Hagrid would neverbetray Dumbledore. Hagrid would never tell anyone how to get pastFluffy... never... but --
Harry suddenly jumped to his feet.
"Where're you going?" said Ron sleepily.
"I've just thought of something," said Harry. He had turnedwhite. "We've got to go and see Hagrid, now."
"Why?" panted Hermione, hurrying to keep up.
"Don't you think it's a bit odd," said Harry, scrambling up thegrassy slope, "that what Hagrid wants more than anything else is adragon, and a stranger turns up who just happens to have an egg inhis pocket? How many people wander around with dragon eggs if it'sagainst wizard law? Lucky they found Hagrid, don't you think? Whydidn't I see it before?"
"What are you talking about?" said Ron, but Harry, sprintingacross the grounds toward the forest, didn't answer.
Hagrid was sitting in an armchair outside his house; histrousers and sleeves were rolled up, and he was shelling peas intoa large bowl.
"Hullo," he said, smiling. "Finished yer exams? Got time fera drink?"
"Yes, please," said Ron, but Harry cut him off.
"No, we're in a hurry. Hagrid, I've got to ask you something. Youknow that night you won Norbert? What did the stranger you wereplaying cards with look like?"
"Dunno," said Hagrid casually, "he wouldn' take his cloak off."
He saw the three of them look stunned and raised his eyebrows.
"It's not that unusual, yeh get a lot o' funny folk in the Hog'sHead -- that's the pub down in the village. Mighta bin a dragondealer, mightn' he? I never saw his face, he kept his hood up."
Harry sank down next to the bowl of peas. "What did you talkto him about, Hagrid? Did you mention Hogwarts at all?"
"Mighta come up," said Hagrid, frowning as he tried toremember. "Yeah... he asked what I did, an' I told him I wasgamekeeper here.... He asked a bit about the sorta creatures I tookafter... so I told him... an' I said what I'd always really wantedwas a dragon... an' then... I can' remember too well, 'cause hekept buyin' me drinks.... Let's see... yeah, then he said he hadthe dragon egg an' we could play cards fer it if I wanted... but hehad ter be sure I could handle it, he didn' want it ter go ter anyold home.... So I told him, after Fluffy, a dragon would be easy..."
"And did he -- did he seem interested in Fluffy?" Harry asked,try ing to keep his voice calm.
"Well -- yeah -- how many three-headed dogs d'yeh meet, evenaround Hogwarts? So I told him, Fluffy's a piece o' cake if yehknow how to calm him down, jus' play him a bit o' music an' he'llgo straight off ter sleep --"
Hagrid suddenly looked horrified.
"I shouldn'ta told yeh that!" he blurted out. "Forget I saidit! Hey -- where're yeh goin'?"
Harry, Ron, and Hermione didn't speak to each other at alluntil they came to a halt in the entrance hall, which seemed verycold and gloomy after the grounds.
"We've got to go to Dumbledore," said Harry. "Hagrid toldthat stranger how to get past Fluffy, and it was either Snape orVoldemort under that cloak -- it must've been easy, once he'd gotHagrid drunk. I just hope Dumbledore believes us. Firenze mightback us up if Bane doesn't stop him. Where's Dumbledore's office?"
They looked around, as if hoping to see a sign pointing themin the right direction. They had never been told where Dumbledorelived, nor did they know anyone who had been sent to see him.
"We'll just have to --" Harry began, but a voice suddenly rangacross the hall.
"What are you three doing inside?"
It was Professor McGonagall, carrying a large pile of books.
"We want to see Professor Dumbledore," said Hermione, ratherbravely, Harry and Ron thought.
"See Professor Dumbledore?" Professor McGonagall repeated,as though this was a very fishy thing to want to do. "Why?"
Harry swallowed -- now what?
"It's sort of secret," he said, but he wished at once he hadn't,because Professor McGonagall's nostrils flared.
"Professor Dumbledore left ten minutes ago," she said coldly. "Hereceived an urgent owl from the Ministry of Magic and flew off forLondon at once."
"He's gone?" said Harry frantically. "Now?"
"Professor Dumbledore is a very great wizard, Potter, he hasmany demands on his time --
"But this is important."
"Something you have to say is more important than the Ministryof Magic, Potter.
"Look," said Harry, throwing caution to the winds, "Professor --it's about the Sorcerer's tone --"
Whatever Professor McGonagall had expected, it wasn't that. Thebooks she was carrying tumbled out of her arms, but she didn't pickthem up. "How do you know --?" she spluttered.
"Professor, I think -- I know -- that Sn- that someone's going totry and steal the Stone. I've got to talk to Professor Dumbledore."
She eyed him with a mixture of shock and suspicion.
"Professor Dumbledore will be back tomorrow," she said finally. Idon't know how you found out about the Stone, but rest assured,no one can possibly steal it, it's too well protected."
"But Professor --"
"Potter, I know what I'm talking about," she said shortly. Shebent down and gathered up the fallen books. I suggest you all goback outside and enjoy the sunshine."
But they didn't.
"It's tonight," said Harry, once he was sure Professor McGonagallwas out of earshot. "Snape's going through the trapdoor tonight. He'sfound out everything he needs, and now he's got Dumbledore out ofthe way. He sent that note, I bet the Ministry of Magic will geta real shock when Dumbledore turns up."
"But what can we --"
Hermione gasped. Harry and Ron wheeled round.
Snape was standing there.
"Good afternoon," he said smoothly.
They stared at him.
"You shouldn't be inside on a day like this," he said, with anodd, twisted smile.
"We were --" Harry began, without any idea what he was goingto say.
"You want to be more careful," said Snape. "Hanging around
like this, people will think you're up to something. AndGryffindor really can't afford to lose any more points, can it?"
Harry flushed. They turned to go outside, but Snape calledthem back.
"Be warned, Potter -- any more nighttime wanderings and I willpersonally make sure you are expelled. Good day to you."
He strode off in the direction of the staffroom.
Out on the stone steps, Harry turned to the others.
"Right, here's what we've got to do," he whispered urgently. "Oneof us has got to keep an eye on Snape -- wait outside the staffroom and follow him if he leaves it. Hermione, you'd better do that."
"Why me?"
"It's obvious," said Ron. "You can pretend to be waitingfor Professor Flitwick, you know." He put on a high voice, "'OhProfessor Flitwick, I'm so worried, I think I got question fourteenb wrong....'"
"Oh, shut up," said Hermione, but she agreed to go and watchout for Snape.
"And we'd better stay outside the third-floor corridor," Harrytold Ron. "Come on."
But that part of the plan didn't work. No sooner had they reachedthe door separating Fluffy from the rest of the school than ProfessorMcGonagall turned up again and this time, she lost her temper.
"I suppose you think you're harder to get past than a pack ofenchantments!" she stormed. "Enough of this nonsense! If I hear you've come anywhere near here again, I'll take another fifty pointsfrom Gryffindor! Yes, Weasley, from my own house!" Harry and Ron wentback to the common room, Harry had just said, "At least Hermione'son Snape's tail," when the portrait of the Fat Lady swung open andHermione came in.
"I'm sorry, Harry!" she wailed. "Snape came out and asked me whatI was doing, so I said I was waiting for Flitwick, and Snape went toget him, and I've only just got away, I don't know where Snape went."
"Well, that's it then, isn't it?" Harry said.
The other two stared at him. He was pale and his eyes wereglittering.
"I'm going out of here tonight and I'm going to try and get tothe Stone first."
"You're mad!" said Ron.
"You can't!" said Hermione. "After what McGonagall and Snapehave said? You'll be expelled!"
"SO WHAP" Harry shouted. "Don't you understand? If Snape getshold of the Stone, Voldemort's coming back! Haven't you heard whatit was like when he was trying to take over? There won't be anyHogwarts to get expelled from! He'll flatten it, or turn it intoa school for the Dark Arts! Losing points doesn't matter anymore,can't you see? D'you think he'll leave you and your families aloneif Gryffindor wins the house cup? If I get caught before I can getto the Stone, well, I'll have to go back to the Dursleys and waitfor Voldemort to find me there, it's only dying a bit later thanI would have, because I'm never going over to the Dark Side! I'mgoing through that trapdoor tonight and nothing you two say isgoing to stop me! Voldemort killed my parents, remember?"
He glared at them.
"You're right Harry," said Hermione in a small voice.
"I'll use the invisibility cloak," said Harry. "It's just luckyI got it back."
"But will it cover all three of us?" said Ron.
"All -- all three of us?"
"Oh, come off it, you don't think we'd let you go alone?"
"Of course not," said Hermione briskly. "How do you think you'dget to the Stone without us? I'd better go and took through my books,there might be something useful..."
"But if we get caught, you two will be expelled, too."
"Not if I can help it," said Hermione grimly. "Flitwicktold me in secret that I got a hundred and twelve percent on hisexam. They're not throwing me out after that."
After dinner the three of them sat nervously apart in thecommon room. Nobody bothered them; none of the Gryffindors hadanything to say to Harry any more, after all. This was the firstnight he hadn't been upset by it. Hermione was skimming throughall her notes, hoping to come across one of the enchantments theywere about to try to break. Harry and Ron didn't talk much. Bothof them were thinking about what they were about to do.
Slowly, the room emptied as people drifted off to bed.
"Better get the cloak," Ron muttered, as Lee Jordan finallyleft, stretching and yawning. Harry ran upstairs to their darkdormitory. He putted out the cloak and then his eyes fell on theflute Hagrid had given him for Christmas. He pocketed it to use onFluffy -- he didn't feel much like singing.
He ran back down to the common room.
"We'd better put the cloak on here, and make sure it coversall three of us -- if Filch spots one of our feet wandering alongon its own --"
"What are you doing?" said a voice from the corner of theroom. Neville appeared from behind an armchair, clutching Trevor thetoad, who looked as though he'd been making another bid for freedom.
"Nothing, Neville, nothing," said Harry, hurriedly putting thecloak behind his back.
Neville stared at their guilty faces.
"You're going out again," he said.
"No, no, no," said Hermione. "No, we're not. Why don't you goto bed, Neville?"
Harry looked at the grandfather clock by the door. They couldn'tafford to waste any more time, Snape might even now be playingFluffy to sleep.
"You can't go out," said Neville, "you'll be caughtagain. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble."
"You don't understand," said Harry, "this is important."
But Neville was clearly steeling himself to do somethingdesperate.
I won't let you do it," he said, hurrying to stand in front ofthe portrait hole. "I'll -- I'll fight you!"
"Neville, "Ron exploded, "get away from that hole and don't bean idiot --"
"Don't you call me an idiot!" said Neville. I don't think youshould be breaking any more rules! And you were the one who toldme to stand up to people!"
"Yes, but not to us," said Ron in exasperation. "Neville,you don't know what you're doing."
He took a step forward and Neville dropped Trevor the toad,who leapt out of sight.
"Go on then, try and hit me!" said Neville, raising hisfists. "I'm ready!"
Harry turned to Hermione.
"Do something," he said desperately.
Hermione stepped forward.
"Neville," she said, "I'm really, really sorry about this."
She raised her wand.
"Petrificus Totalus!" she cried, pointing it at Neville.
Neville's arms snapped to his sides. His legs sprangtogether. His whole body rigid, he swayed where he stood and thenfell flat on his face, stiff as a board.
Hermione ran to turn him over. Neville's jaws were jammedtogether so he couldn't speak. Only his eyes were moving, lookingat them in horror.
"What've you done to him?" Harry whispered.
"It's the full Body-Bind," said Hermione miserably. "Oh, Neville,I'm so sorry."
"We had to, Neville, no time to explain," said Harry.
"You'll understand later, Neville," said Ron as they steppedover him and pulled on the invisibility cloak.
But leaving Neville lying motionless on the floor didn't feellike a very good omen. In their nervous state, every statue's shadowlooked like Filch, every distant breath of wind sounded like Peevesswooping down on them. At the foot of the first set of stairs,they spotted Mrs. Norris skulking near the top.
"Oh, let's kick her, just this once," Ron whispered in Harry'sear, but Harry shook his head. As they climbed carefully around her,Mrs. Norris turned her lamplike eyes on them, but didn't do anything.
They didn't meet anyone else until they reached the staircaseup to the third floor. Peeves was bobbing halfway up, looseningthe carpet so that people would trip.
"Who's there?" he said suddenly as they climbed toward him. Henarrowed his wicked black eyes. "Know you're there, even if I can'tsee you. Are you ghoulie or ghostie or wee student beastie?"
He rose up in the air and floated there, squinting at them.
"Should call Filch, I should, if something's a-creeping aroundunseen."
Harry had a sudden idea.
"Peeves," he said, in a hoarse whisper, "the Bloody Baron hashis own reasons for being invisible."
Peeves almost fell out of the air in shock. He caught himselfin time and hovered about a foot off the stairs.
"So sorry, your bloodiness, Mr. Baron, Sir," he saidgreasily. "My mistake, my mistake -- I didn't see you -- of courseI didn't, you're invisible -- forgive old Peevsie his little joke,sir."
"I have business here, Peeves," croaked Harry. "Stay away fromthis place tonight."
"I will, sir, I most certainly will," said Peeves, rising upin the air again. "Hope your business goes well, Baron, I'll notbother you."
And he scooted off
"Brilliant, Harry!" whispered Ron.
A few seconds later, they were there, outside the third-floorcorridor -- and the door was already ajar.
"Well, there you are," Harry said quietly, "Snape's alreadygot past Fluffy."
Seeing the open door somehow seemed to impress upon all threeof them what was facing them. Underneath the cloak, Harry turnedto the other two.
"If you want to go back, I won't blame you," he said. "You cantake the cloak, I won't need it now."
"Don't be stupid," said Ron.
"We're coming," said Hermione.
Harry pushed the door open.
As the door creaked, low, rumbling growls met their ears. Allthree of the dog's noses sniffed madly in their direction, eventhough it couldn't see them.
"What's that at its feet?" Hermione whispered.
"Looks like a harp," said Ron. "Snape must have left it there."
"It must wake up the moment you stop playing," said Harry. "Well,here goes..."
He put Hagrid's flute to his lips and blew. It wasn't really atune, but from the first note the beast's eyes began to droop. Harryhardly drew breath. Slowly, the dog's growls ceased -- it totteredon its paws and fell to its knees, then it slumped to the ground,fast asleep.
"Keep playing," Ron warned Harry as they slipped out of thecloak and crept toward the trapdoor. They could feel the dog's hot,smelly breath as they approached the giant heads. "I think we'llbe able to pull the door open," said Ron, peering over the dog'sback. "Want to go first, Hermione?"
"No, I don't!"
"All right." Ron gritted his teeth and stepped carefully overthe dog's legs. He bent and pulled the ring of the trapdoor, whichswung up and open.
"What can you see?" Hermione said anxiously.
"Nothing -- just black -- there's no way of climbing down,we'll just have to drop."
Harry, who was still playing the flute, waved at Ron to gethis attention and pointed at himself.
"You want to go first? Are you sure?" said Ron. "I don't knowhow deep this thing goes. Give the flute to Hermione so she cankeep him asleep."
Harry handed the flute over. In the few seconds' silence, thedog growled and twitched, but the moment Hermione began to play,it fell back into its deep sleep.
Harry climbed over it and looked down through the trapdoor. Therewas no sign of the bottom.
He lowered himself through the hole until he was hanging on byhis fingertips. Then he looked up at Ron and said, "If anythinghappens to me, don't follow. Go straight to the owlery and sendHedwig to Dumbledore, right?"
"Right," said Ron.
"See you in a minute, I hope...
And Harry let go. Cold, damp air rushed past him as he felldown, down, down and -- FLUMP. With a funny, muffled sort of thumphe landed on something soft. He sat up and felt around, his eyesnot used to the gloom. It felt as though he was sitting on somesort of plant.
"It's okay!" he called up to the light the size of a postagestamp, which was the open trapdoor, "it's a soft landing, youcan jump!"
Ron followed right away. He landed, sprawled next to Harry.
"What's this stuff?" were his first words.
"Dunno, some sort of plant thing. I suppose it's here to breakthe fall. Come on, Hermione!"
The distant music stopped. There was a loud bark from the dog,but Hermione had already jumped. She landed on Harry's other side.
"We must be miles under the school , she said.
"Lucky this plant thing's here, really," said Ron.
"Lucky!" shrieked Hermione. "Look at you both!"
She leapt up and struggled toward a damp wall. She had tostruggle because the moment she had landed, the plant had started totwist snakelike tendrils around her ankles. As for Harry and Ron,their legs had already been bound tightly in long creepers withouttheir noticing.
Hermione had managed to free herself before the plant got afirm grip on her. Now she watched in horror as the two boys foughtto pull the plant off them, but the more they strained against it,the tighter and faster the plant wound around them.
"Stop moving!" Hermione ordered them. "I know what this is --it's Devil's Snare!"
"Oh, I'm so glad we know what it's called, that's a great help,"snarled Ron, leaning back, trying to stop the plant from curlingaround his neck. "Shut up, I'm trying to remember how to killit!" said Hermione.
"Well, hurry up, I can't breathe!" Harry gasped, wrestling withit as it curled around his chest.
"Devil's Snare, Devil's Snare... what did Professor Sproutsay? -- it likes the dark and the damp
"So light a fire!" Harry choked.
"Yes -- of course -- but there's no wood!" Hermione cried,wringing her hands.
"HAVE YOU GONE MAD?" Ron bellowed. "ARE YOU A WITCH OR NOT?"
"Oh, right!" said Hermione, and she whipped out her wand,waved it, muttered something, and sent a jet of the same bluebellflames she had used on Snape at the plant. In a matter of seconds,the two boys felt it loosening its grip as it cringed away from thelight and warmth. Wriggling and flailing, it unraveled itself fromtheir bodies, and they were able to pull free.
"Lucky you pay attention in Herbology, Hermione," said Harryas he joined her by the wall, wiping sweat off his face.
"Yeah," said Ron, "and lucky Harry doesn't lose his head in acrisis -- 'there's no wood,' honestly."
"This way," said Harry, pointing down a stone passageway,which was the only way forward.
All they could hear apart from their footsteps was the gentledrip of water trickling down the walls. The passageway slopeddownward, and Harry was reminded of Gringotts. With an unpleasantjolt of the heart, he remembered the dragons said to be guardingvaults in the wizards' bank. If they met a dragon, a fully-growndragon -- Norbert had been bad enough...
"Can you hear something?" Ron whispered.
Harry listened. A soft rustling and clinking seemed to be comingfrom up ahead.
"Do you think it's a ghost?"
"I don't know... sounds like wings to me."
"There's light ahead -- I can see something moving."
They reached the end of the passageway and saw before them abrilliantly lit chamber, its ceiling arching high above them. Itwas full of small, jewel-bright birds, fluttering and tumbling allaround the room. On the opposite side of the chamber was a heavywooden door.
"Do you think they'll attack us if we cross the room?" said Ron.
"Probably," said Harry. "They don't look very vicious, but Isuppose if they all swooped down at once... well, there's no otherchoice... I'll run."
He took a deep breath, covered his face with his arms, andsprinted across the room. He expected to feel sharp beaks and clawstearing at him any second, but nothing happened. He reached thedoor untouched. He pulled the handle, but it was locked.
The other two followed him. They tugged and heaved at the door,but it wouldn't budge, not even when Hermione tried her Alohomoracharm.
"Now what?" said Ron.
"These birds... they can't be here just for decoration,"said Hermione.
They watched the birds soaring overhead, glittering --glittering?
"They're not birds!" Harry said suddenly. "They're keys! Wingedkeys -- look carefully. So that must mean..." he looked aroundthe chamber while the other two squinted up at the flock ofkeys. "... yes -- look! Broomsticks! We've got to catch the key tothe door!"
"But there are hundreds of them!"
Ron examined the lock on the door.
"We're looking for a big, old-fashioned one -- probably silver,like the handle."
They each seized a broomstick and kicked off into the air,soaring into the midst of the cloud of keys. They grabbed andsnatched, but the bewitched keys darted and dived so quickly itwas almost impossible to catch one.
Not for nothing, though, was Harry the youngest Seekerin a century. He had a knack for spotting things other peopledidn't. After a minute's weaving about through the whirl of rainbowfeathers, he noticed a large silver key that had a bent wing, asif it had already been caught and stuffed roughly into the keyhole.
"That one!" he called to the others. "That big one -- there --no, there -- with bright blue wings -- the feathers are all crumpledon one side."
Ron went speeding in the direction that Harry was pointing,crashed into the ceiling, and nearly fell off his broom.
"We've got to close in on it!" Harry called, not taking hiseyes off the key with the damaged wing. "Ron, you come at it fromabove -- Hermione, stay below and stop it from going down and I'lltry and catch it. Right, NOW!"
Ron dived, Hermione rocketed upward, the key dodged them both,and Harry streaked after it; it sped toward the wall, Harry leanedforward and with a nasty, crunching noise, pinned it against thestone with one hand. Ron and Hermione's cheers echoed around thehigh chamber.
They landed quickly, and Harry ran to the door, the keystruggling in his hand. He rammed it into the lock and turned --it worked. The moment the lock had clicked open, the key took flightagain, looking very battered now that it had been caught twice.
"Ready?" Harry asked the other two, his hand on the doorhandle. They nodded. He pulled the door open.
The next chamber was so dark they couldn't see anything atall. But as they stepped into it, light suddenly flooded the roomto reveal an astonishing sight.
They were standing on the edge of a huge chessboard, behind theblack chessmen, which were all taller than they were and carved fromwhat looked like black stone. Facing them, way across the chamber,were the white pieces. Harry, Ron and Hermione shivered slightly --the towering white chessmen had no faces.
"Now what do we do?" Harry whispered.
"It's obvious, isn't it?" said Ron. "We've got to play our wayacross the room."
Behind the white pieces they could see another door.
"How?" said Hermione nervously.
"I think," said Ron, "we're going to have to be chessmen."
He walked up to a black knight and put his hand out to touchthe knight's horse. At once, the stone sprang to life. The horsepawed the ground and the knight turned his helmeted head to lookdown at Ron.
"Do we -- er -- have to join you to get across?" The blackknight nodded. Ron turned to the other two.
"This needs thinking about	he said. I suppose we've got totake the place of three of the black pieces...."
Harry and Hermione stayed quiet, watching Ron think. Finallyhe said, "Now, don't be offended or anything, but neither of youare that good at chess --"
"We're not offended," said Harry quickly. "Just tell us whatto do."
"Well, Harry, you take the place of that bishop, and Hermione,YOU 90 next to him instead of that castle."
"What about you?"
"I'm going to be a knight," said Ron.
The chessmen seemed to have been listening, because at thesewords a knight, a bishop, and a castle turned their backs on thewhite pieces and walked off the board, leaving three empty squaresthat Harry, Ron, and Hermione took.
"White always plays first in chess," said Ron, peering acrossthe board. "Yes... look..."
A white pawn had moved forward two squares.
Ron started to direct the black pieces. They moved silentlywherever he sent them. Harry's knees were trembling. What ifthey lost?
"Harry -- move diagonally four squares to the right."
Their first real shock came when their other knight wastaken. The white queen smashed him to the floor and dragged himoff the board, where he lay quite still, facedown.
"Had to let that happen," said Ron, looking shaken. "Leavesyou free to take that bishop, Hermione, go on."
Every time one of their men was lost, the white pieces showedno mercy. Soon there was a huddle of limp black players slumpedalong the wall. Twice, Ron only just noticed in time that Harryand Hermione were in danger. He himself darted around the board,taking almost as many white pieces as they had lost black ones.
"We're nearly there," he muttered suddenly. "Let me think letme think..."
The white queen turned her blank face toward him.
"Yes..." said Ron softly, "It's the only way... I've got tobe taken."
"NOF Harry and Hermione shouted.
"That's chess!" snapped Ron. "You've got to make somesacrifices! I take one step forward and she'll take me -- thatleaves you free to checkmate the king, Harry!"
"But --"
"Do you want to stop Snape or not?"
"Ron --"
"Look, if you don't hurry up, he'll already have the Stone!"
There was no alternative.
"Ready?" Ron called, his face pale but determined. "Here I go -now, don't hang around once you've won."
He stepped forward, and the white queen pounced. She struckRon hard across the head with her stone arm, and he crashed tothe floor - Hermione screamed but stayed on her square - the whitequeen dragged Ron to one side. He looked as if he'd been knocked out.
Shaking, Harry moved three spaces to the left.
The white king took off his crown and threw it at Harry'sfeet. They had won. The chessmen parted and bowed, leaving the doorahead clear. With one last desperate look back at Ron, Harry andHermione charged through the door and up the next passageway.
"What if he's --?"
"He'll be all right," said Harry, trying to convincehimself. "What do you reckon's next?"
"We've had Sprout's, that was the Devil's Snare; Flitwick must'veput charms on the keys; McGonagall transfigured the chessmen tomake them alive; that leaves Quirrell's spell, and Snape's."
They had reached another door.
"All right?" Harry whispered.
"Go on."
Harry pushed it open.
A disgusting smell filled their nostrils, making both of thempull their robes up over their noses. Eyes watering, they saw,flat on the floor in front of them, a troll even larger than theone they had tackled, out cold with a bloody lump on its head.
"I'm glad we didn't have to fight that one," Harry whisperedas they stepped carefully over one of its massive legs. "Come on,I can't breathe."
He pulled open the next door, both of them hardly daring to lookat what came next - but there was nothing very frightening in here,just a table with seven differently shaped bottles standing on itin a line.
"Snape's," said Harry. "What do we have to do?"
They stepped over the threshold, and immediately a fire sprangup behind them in the doorway. It wasn't ordinary fire either;it was purple. At the same instant, black flames shot up in thedoorway leading onward. They were trapped.
"Look!" Hermione seized a roll of paper lying next to thebottles. Harry looked over her shoulder to read it:
Danger lies before you, while safety lies behind,
Two of us will help you, which ever you would find,
One among us seven will let you move ahead,
Another will transport the drinker back instead,
Two among our number hold only nettle wine,
Three of us are killers, waiting bidden in line.
Choose, unless you wish to stay here forevermore,
To help you in your choice, we give you these clues four:
First, however slyly the poison tries to hide
You will always find some on nettle wine's left side;
Second, different are those who stand at either end,
But if you would move onward, neither is your friend;
Third, as you see clearly, all are different size,
Neither dwarf nor giant holds death in their insides;
Fourth, the second left and the second on the right
Are twins once you taste them, though different at first sight.
Hermione let out a great sigh and Harry, amazed, saw that shewas smiling, the very last thing he felt like doing.
"Brilliant," said Hermione. "This isn't magic -- it's logic --a puzzle. A lot of the greatest wizards haven't got an ounce oflogic, they'd be stuck in here forever."
"But so will we, won't we?" "Of course not," saidHermione. "Everything we need is here on this paper. Seven bottles:three are poison; two are wine; one will get us safely through theblack fire, and one will get us back through the purple."
"But how do we know which to drink?"
"Give me a minute."
Hermione read the paper several times. Then she walked up anddown the line of bottles, muttering to herself and pointing atthem. At last, she clapped her hands.
"Got it," she said. "The smallest bottle will get us throughthe black fire -- toward the Stone."
Harry looked at the tiny bottle.
"There's only enough there for one of us," he said. "That'shardly one swallow."
They looked at each other.
"Which one will get you back through the purple flames?"
Hermione pointed at a rounded bottle at the right end ofthe line.
"You drink that," said Harry. "No, listen, get back and getRon. Grab brooms from the flying- key room, they'll get you out ofthe trapdoor and past Fluffy -- go straight to the owlery and sendHedwig to Dumbledore, we need him. I might be able to hold Snapeoff for a while, but I'm no match for him, really."
"But Harry -- what if You-Know-Who's with him?"
"Well -- I was lucky once, wasn't I?" said Harry, pointing athis scar. "I might get lucky again."
Hermione's lip trembled, and she suddenly dashed at Harry andthrew her arms around him.
"Hermione!"
"Harry -- you're a great wizard, you know."
"I'm not as good as you," said Harry, very embarrassed, as shelet go of him.
"Me!" said Hermione. "Books! And cleverness! There are moreimportant things -- friendship and bravery and -- oh Harry --be careful!"
"You drink first," said Harry. "You are sure which is which,aren't you?"
"Positive," said Hermione. She took a long drink from the roundbottle at the end, and shuddered.
"It's not poison?" said Harry anxiously.
"No -- but it's like ice."
"Quick, go, before it wears off."
"Good luck -- take care."
"GO!"
Hermione turned and walked straight through the purple fire.
Harry took a deep breath and picked up the smallest bottle. Heturned to face the black flames.
"Here I come," he said, and he drained the little bottle inone gulp.
It was indeed as though ice was flooding his body. He put thebottle down and walked forward; he braced himself, saw the blackflames licking his body, but couldn't feel them -- for a moment hecould see nothing but dark fire -- then he was on the other side,in the last chamber.
There was already someone there -- but it wasn't Snape. Itwasn't even Voldemort.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
THE MAN WITH TWO FACES
It was Quirrell.
"You!" gasped Harry.
Quirrell smiled. His face wasn't twitching at all.
"Me," he said calmly. "I wondered whether I'd be meeting youhere, Potter."
"But I thought -- Snape --"
"Severus?" Quirrell laughed, and it wasn't his usual quiveringtreble, either, but cold and sharp. "Yes, Severus does seem thetype, doesn't he? So useful to have him swooping around like anovergrown bat. Next to him, who would suspect p-p-poor, st-stutteringP-Professor Quirrell?"
Harry couldn't take it in. This couldn't be true, it couldn't.
"But Snape tried to kill me!"
"No, no, no. I tried to kill you. Your friend Miss Grangeraccidentally knocked me over as she rushed to set fire to Snape atthat Quidditch match. She broke my eye contact with you. Anotherfew seconds and I'd have got you off that broom. I'd have managedit before then if Snape hadn't been muttering a countercurse,trying to save you."
"Snape was trying to save me?"
"Of course," said Quirrell coolly. "\Why do you think he wantedto referee your next match? He was trying to make sure I didn't doit again. Funny, really... he needn't have bothered. I couldn't doanything with Dumbledore watching. All the other teachers thoughtSnape was trying to stop Gryffindor from winning, he did makehimself unpopular... and what a waste of time, when after all that,I'm going to kill you tonight."
Quirrell snapped his fingers. Ropes sprang out of thin air andwrapped themselves tightly around Harry.
"You're too nosy to live, Potter. Scurrying around the schoolon Halloween like that, for all I knew you'd seen me coming to lookat what was guarding the Stone."
"You let the troll in?"
"Certainly. I have a special gift with trolls -- you must haveseen what I did to the one in the chamber back there? Unfortunately,while everyone else was running around looking for it, Snape, whoalready suspected me, went straight to the third floor to head meoff -- and not only did my troll fail to beat you to death, thatthree-headed dog didn't even manage to bite Snape's leg off properly.
"Now, wait quietly, Potter. I need to examine this interestingmirror.
It was only then that Harry realized what was standing behindQuirrell. It was the Mirror of Erised.
"This mirror is the key to finding the Stone," Quirrell murmured,tapping his way around the frame. "Trust Dumbledore to come up withsomething like this... but he's in London... I'll be far away bythe time he gets back...."
All Harry could think of doing was to keep Quirrell talkingand stop him from concentrating on the mirror.
"I saw you and Snape in the forest --" he blurted out.
"Yes," said Quirrell idly, walking around the mirror to lookat the back. "He was on to me by that time, trying to find outhow far I'd got. He suspected me all along. Tried to frighten me -as though he could, when I had Lord Voldemort on my side...."
Quirrell came back out from behind the mirror and stared hungrilyinto it.
"I see the Stone... I'm presenting it to my master... but whereis it?"
Harry struggled against the ropes binding him, but they didn'tgive. He had to keep Quirrell from giving his whole attention tothe mirror.
"But Snape always seemed to hate me so much."
"Oh, he does," said Quirrell casually, "heavens, yes. He wasat Hogwarts with your father, didn't you know? They loathed eachother. But he never wanted you dead."
"But I heard you a few days ago, sobbing -- I thought Snapewas threatening you...."
For the first time, a spasm of fear flitted across Quirrell'sface.
"Sometimes," he said, "I find it hard to follow my master'sinstructions -- he is a great wizard and I am weak --"
"You mean he was there in the classroom with you?" Harry gasped.
"He is with me wherever I go," said Quirrell quietly. "I met himwhen I traveled around the world. A foolish young man I was then,full of ridiculous ideas about good and evil. Lord Voldemort showedme how wrong I was. There is no good and evil, there is only power,and those too weak to seek it.... Since then, I have served himfaithfully, although I have let him down many times. He has had to bevery hard on me." Quirrell shivered suddenly. "He does not forgivemistakes easily. When I failed to steal the stone from Gringotts,he was most displeased. He punished me... decided he would have tokeep a closer watch on me...."
Quirrell's voice trailed away. Harry was remembering his trip toDiagon Alley -how could he have been so stupid? He'd seen Quirrellthere that very day, shaken hands with him in the Leaky Cauldron.
Quirrell cursed under his breath.
"I don't understand... is the Stone inside the mirror? ShouldI break it?"
Harry's mind was racing.
What I want more than anything else in the world at the moment,he thought, is to find the Stone before Quirrell does. So if Ilook in the mirror, I should see myseff finding it -- which meansI'll see where it's hidden! But how can I look without Quirrellrealizing what I'm up to?
He tried to edge to the left, to get in front of the glasswithout Quirrell noticing, but the ropes around his ankles weretoo tight: he tripped and fell over. Quirrell ignored him. He wasstill talking to himself. "What does this mirror do? How does itwork? Help me, Master!"
And to Harry's horror, a voice answered, and the voice seemedto come from Quirrell himself
"Use the boy... Use the boy..."
Quirrell rounded on Harry.
"Yes -- Potter -- come here."
He clapped his hands once, and the ropes binding Harry felloff. Harry got slowly to his feet.
"Come here," Quirrell repeated. "Look in the mirror and tellme what you see."
Harry walked toward him.
I must lie, he thought desperately. I must look and lie aboutwhat I see, that's all.
Quirrell moved close behind him. Harry breathed in the funnysmell that seemed to come from Quirrell's turban. He closed his eyes,stepped in front of the mirror, and opened them again.
He saw his reflection, pale and scared-looking at first. Buta moment later, the reflection smiled at him. It put its handinto its pocket and pulled out a blood-red stone. It winked andput the Stone back in its pocket -- and as it did so, Harry feltsomething heavy drop into his real pocket. Somehow -- incredibly --he'd gotten the Stone.
"Well?" said Quirrell impatiently. "What do you see?"
Harry screwed up his courage.
"I see myself shaking hands with Dumbledore," he invented. "I --I've won the house cup for Gryffindor."
Quirrell cursed again.
"Get out of the way," he said. As Harry moved aside, he feltthe Sorcerer's Stone against his leg. Dare he make a break for it?
But he hadn't walked five paces before a high voice spoke,though Quirrell wasn't moving his lips.
"He lies... He lies..."
"Potter, come back here!" Quirrell shouted. "Tell me thetruth! What did you just see?"
The high voice spoke again.
"Let me speak to him... face-to-face..."
"Master, you are not strong enough!"
"I have strength enough... for this...."
Harry felt as if Devil's Snare was rooting him to the spot. Hecouldn't move a muscle. Petrified, he watched as Quirrell reachedup and began to unwrap his turban. What was going on? The turbanfell away. Quirrell's head looked strangely small without it. Thenhe turned slowly on the spot.
Harry would have screamed, but he couldn't make a sound. Wherethere should have been a back to Quirrell's head, there was a face,the most terrible face Harry had ever seen. It was chalk white withglaring red eyes and slits for nostrils, like a snake.
"Harry Potter..." it whispered.
Harry tried to take a step backward but his legs wouldn't move.
"See what I have become?" the face said. "Mere shadow andvapor ... I have form only when I can share another's body... butthere have always been those willing to let me into their hearts andminds.... Unicorn blood has strengthened me, these past weeks... yousaw faithful Quirrell drinking it for me in the forest... and onceI have the Elixir of Life, I will be able to create a body of myown.... Now... why don't you give me that Stone in your pocket?"
So he knew. The feeling suddenly surged back into Harry'slegs. He stumbled backward.
"Don't be a fool," snarled the face. "Better save your own lifeand join me... or you'll meet the same end as your parents.... Theydied begging me for mercy..."
"LIAR!" Harry shouted suddenly.
Quirrell was walking backward at him, so that Voldemort couldstill see him. The evil face was now smiling.
"How touching..." it hissed. "I always value bravery... Yes,boy, your parents were brave.... I killed your father first;and he put up a courageous fight... but your mother needn't havedied... she was trying to protect you.... Now give me the Stone,unless you want her to have died in vain."
"NEVER!"
Harry sprang toward the flame door, but Voldemort screamed "SEIZEHIM!" and the next second, Harry felt Quirrell's hand close on hiswrist. At once, a needle-sharp pain seared across Harry's scar;his head felt as though it was about to split in two; he yelled,struggling with all his might, and to his surprise, Quirrell let goof him. The pain in his head lessened -- he looked around wildly tosee where Quirrell had gone, and saw him hunched in pain, lookingat his fingers -- they were blistering before his eyes.
"Seize him! SEIZE HIM!" shrieked Voldemort again, and Quirrelllunged, knocking Harry clean off his feet' landing on top of him,both hands around Harry's neck -- Harry's scar was almost blindinghim with pain, yet he could see Quirrell howling in agony.
"Master, I cannot hold him -- my hands -- my hands!"
And Quirrell, though pinning Harry to the ground with his knees,let go of his neck and stared, bewildered, at his own palms --Harry could see they looked burned, raw, red, and shiny.
"Then kill him, fool, and be done!" screeched Voldemort.
Quirrell raised his hand to perform a deadly curse, but Harry,by instinct, reached up and grabbed Quirrell's face --
"AAAARGH!"
Quirrell rolled off him, his face blistering, too, and thenHarry knew: Quirrell couldn't touch his bare skin, not withoutsuffering terrible pain -- his only chance was to keep hold ofQuirrell, keep him in enough pain to stop him from doing a curse.
Harry jumped to his feet, caught Quirrell by the arm, and hungon as tight as he could. Quirrell screamed and tried to throw Harryoff -- the pain in Harry's head was building -- he couldn't see -- hecould only hear Quirrell's terrible shrieks and Voldemort's yells of,"KILL HIM! KILL HIM!" and other voices, maybe in Harry's own head,crying, "Harry! Harry!"
He felt Quirrell's arm wrenched from his grasp, knew all waslost, and fell into blackness, down ... down... down...
Something gold was glinting just above him. The Snitch! Hetried to catch it, but his arms were too heavy.
He blinked. It wasn't the Snitch at all. It was a pair ofglasses. How strange.
He blinked again. The smiling face of Albus Dumbledore swaminto view above him.
"Good afternoon, Harry," said Dumbledore. Harry stared athim. Then he remembered: "Sir! The Stone! It was Quirrell! He'sgot the Stone! Sir, quick --"
"Calm yourself, dear boy, you are a little behind the times,"said Dumbledore. "Quirrell does not have the Stone."
"Then who does? Sir, I --"
"Harry, please relax, or Madam Pomfrey will have me thrown out.
Harry swallowed and looked around him. He realized he must be inthe hospital wing. He was lying in a bed with white linen sheets,and next to him was a table piled high with what looked like halfthe candy shop.
"Tokens from your friends and admirers," said Dumbledore,beaming. "What happened down in the dungeons between you andProfessor Quirrell is a complete secret, so, naturally, the wholeschool knows. I believe your friends Misters Fred and George Weasleywere responsible for trying to send you a toilet seat. No doubtthey thought it would amuse you. Madam Pomfrey, however, felt itmight not be very hygienic, and confiscated it."
"How long have I been in here?"
"Three days. Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Granger will be mostrelieved you have come round, they have been extremely worried."
"But sit, the Stone
I see you are not to be distracted. Very well, theStone. Professor Quirrell did not manage to take it from you. Iarrived in time to prevent that, although you were doing very wellon your own, I must say.
"You got there? You got Hermione's owl?"
"We must have crossed in midair. No sooner had I reached Londonthan it became clear to me that the place I should be was the oneI had just left. I arrived just in time to pull Quirrell off you."
"It was you."
"I feared I might be too late."
"You nearly were, I couldn't have kept him off the Stone muchlonger --"
"Not the Stone, boy, you -- the effort involved nearly killedyou. For one terrible moment there, I was afraid it had. As forthe Stone, it has been destroyed."
"Destroyed?" said Harry blankly. "But your friend -- NicolasFlamel --"
"Oh, you know about Nicolas?" said Dumbledore, sounding quitedelighted. "You did do the thing properly, didn't you? Well, Nicolasand I have had a little chat, and agreed it's all for the best."
"But that means he and his wife will die, won't they?"
"They have enough Elixir stored to set their affairs in orderand then, yes, they will die."
Dumbledore smiled at the look of amazement on Harry's face.
"To one as young as you, I'm sure it seems incredible, but toNicolas and Perenelle, it really is like going to bed after a very,very long day. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is butthe next great adventure. You know, the Stone was really not such awonderful thing. As much money and life as you could want! The twothings most human beings would choose above all -- the trouble is,humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that areworst for them." Harry lay there, lost for words. Dumbledore hummeda little and smiled at the ceiling.
"Sir?" said Harry. "I've been thinking... sir -- even if theStone's gone, Vol-, I mean, You-Know- Who --"
"Call him Voldemort, Harry. Always use the proper name forthings. Fear of a name increases fear of the thing itself."
"Yes, sir. Well, Voldemort's going to try other ways of comingback, isn't he? I mean, he hasn't gone, has he?"
"No, Harry, he has not. He is still out there somewhere,perhaps looking for another body to share... not being truly alive,he cannot be killed. He left Quirrell to die; he shows just aslittle mercy to his followers as his enemies. Nevertheless, Harry,while you may only have delayed his return to power, it will merelytake someone else who is prepared to fight what seems a losingbattle next time -- and if he is delayed again, and again, why,he may never return to power."
Harry nodded, but stopped quickly, because it made his headhurt. Then he said, "Sir, there are some other things I'd liketo know, if you can tell me... things I want to know the truthabout...."
"The truth." Dumbledore sighed. "It is a beautiful and terriblething, and should therefore be treated with great caution. However, Ishall answer your questions unless I have a very good reason not to,in which case I beg you'll forgive me. I shall not, of course, lie."
"Well... Voldemort said that he only killed my mother becauseshe tried to stop him from killing me. But why would he want tokill me in the first place?"
Dumbledore sighed very deeply this time.
"Alas, the first thing you ask me, I cannot tell you. Nottoday. Not now. You will know, one day... put it from your mindfor now, Harry. When you are older... I know you hate to hearthis... when you are ready, you will know."
And Harry knew it would be no good to argue.
"But why couldn't Quirrell touch me?"
"Your mother died to save you. If there is one thing Voldemortcannot understand, it is love. He didn't realize that love aspowerful as your mother's for you leaves its own mark. Not a scar, novisible sign... to have been loved so deeply, even though the personwho loved us is gone, will give us some protection forever. It isin your very skin. Quirrell, full of hatred, greed, and ambition,sharing his soul with Voldemort, could not touch you for thisreason. It was agony to touch a person marked by something so good."
Dumbledore now became very interested in a bird out on thewindowsill, which gave Harry time to dry his eyes on the sheet. Whenhe had found his voice again, Harry said, "And the invisibilitycloak - do you know who sent it to me?"
"Ah - your father happened to leave it in my possession, andI thought you might like it." Dumbledore's eyes twinkled. "Usefulthings... your father used it mainly for sneaking off to the kitchensto steal food when he was here."
"And there's something else..."
"Fire away."
"Quirrell said Snape --"
"Professor Snape, Harry." "Yes, him -- Quirrell said he hatesme because he hated my father. Is that true?"
"Well, they did rather detest each other. Not unlike yourselfand Mr. Malfoy. And then, your father did something Snape couldnever forgive."
"What?"
"He saved his life."
"What?"
"Yes..." said Dumbledore dreamily. "Funny, the way people'sminds work, isn't it? Professor Snape couldn't bear being in yourfather's debt.... I do believe he worked so hard to protect you thisyear because he felt that would make him and your father even. Thenhe could go back to hating your father's memory in peace...."
Harry tried to understand this but it made his head pound,so he stopped.
"And sir, there's one more thing..."
"Just the one?"
"How did I get the Stone out of the mirror?"
"Ah, now, I'm glad you asked me that. It was one of my morebrilliant ideas, and between you and me, that's saying something. Yousee, only one who wanted to find the Stone -- find it, but not useit -- would be able to get it, otherwise they'd just see themselvesmaking gold or drinking Elixir of Life. My brain surprises evenme sometimes.... Now, enough questions. I suggest you make astart on these sweets. Ah! Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans! I wasunfortunate enough in my youth to come across a vomitflavored one,and since then I'm afraid I've rather lost my liking for them --but I think I'll be safe with a nice toffee, don't you?"
He smiled and popped the golden-brown bean into his mouth. Thenhe choked and said, "Alas! Ear wax!"
Madam Pomfrey, the nurse, was a nice woman, but very strict.
"Just five minutes," Harry pleaded.
"Absolutely not."
"You let Professor Dumbledore in..."
"Well, of course, that was the headmaster, quite different. Youneed rest."
"I am resting, look, lying down and everything. Oh, go on,Madam Pomfrey..."
"Oh, very well," she said. "But five minutes only."
And she let Ron and Hermione in.
"Harry!"
Hermione looked ready to fling her arms around him again, butHarry was glad she held herself in as his head was still very sore.
"Oh, Harry, we were sure you were going to -- Dumbledore wasso worried --"
"The whole school's talking about it," said Ron. "What reallyhappened?"
It was one of those rare occasions when the true story is evenmore strange and exciting than the wild rumors. Harry told themeverything: Quirrell; the mirror; the Stone; and Voldemort. Ron andHermione were a very good audience; they gasped in all the rightplaces, and when Harry told them what was under Quirrell's turban,Hermione screamed out loud.
"So the Stone's gone?" said Ron finally. "Flamel's just goingto die?"
"That's what I said, but Dumbledore thinks that -- what wasit? -- 'to the well-organized mind, death is but the next greatadventure.
"I always said he was off his rocker," said Ron, looking quiteimpressed at how crazy his hero was.
"So what happened to you two?" said Harry.
"Well, I got back all right," said Hermione. "I brought Ronround -- that took a while -- and we were dashing up to the owleryto contact Dumbledore when we met him in the entrance hall --he already knew -- he just said, 'Harry's gone after him, hasn'the?' and hurtled off to the third floor."
"D'you think he meant you to do it?" said Ron. "Sending youyour father's cloak and everything?"
"Well, " Hermione exploded, "if he did -- I mean to say that'sterrible -- you could have been killed."
"No, it isn't," said Harry thoughtfully. "He's a funny man,Dumbledore. I think he sort of wanted to give me a chance. I thinkhe knows more or less everything that goes on here, you know. Ireckon he had a pretty good idea we were going to try, and insteadof stopping us, he just taught us enough to help. I don't think itwas an accident he let me find out how the mirror worked. It's almostlike he thought I had the right to face Voldemort if I could...."
"Yeah, Dumbledore's off his rocker, all right," said Ronproudly. "Listen, you've got to be up for the end-of-year feasttomorrow. The points are all in and Slytherin won, of course --you missed the last Quidditch match, we were steamrollered byRavenclaw without you -- but the food'll be good."
At that moment, Madam Pomfrey bustled over.
"You've had nearly fifteen minutes, now OUT" she said firmly.
After a good night's sleep, Harry felt nearly back to normal.
I want to go to the feast," he told Madam Pomfrey as shestraightened his many candy boxes. I can, can't I?"
"Professor Dumbledore says you are to be allowed to go," shesaid stiffily, as though in her opinion Professor Dumbledore didn'trealize how risky feasts could be. "And you have another visitor."
"Oh, good," said Harry. "Who is it?"
Hagrid sidled through the door as he spoke. As usual when hewas indoors, Hagrid looked too big to be allowed. He sat down nextto Harry, took one look at him, and burst into tears.
"It's -- all -- my -- ruddy -- fault!" he sobbed, his face inhis hands. I told the evil git how ter get past Fluffy! I toldhim! It was the only thing he didn't know, an' I told him! Yehcould've died! All fer a dragon egg! I'll never drink again! Ishould be chucked out an' made ter live as a Muggle!"
"Hagrid!" said Harry, shocked to see Hagrid shaking with griefand remorse, great tears leaking down into his beard. "Hagrid,he'd have found out somehow, this is Voldemort we're talking about,he'd have found out even if you hadn't told him."
"Yeh could've died!" sobbed Hagrid. "An' don' say the name!"
"VOLDEMORT!" Harry bellowed, and Hagrid was so shocked,he stopped crying. "I've met him and I'm calling him by hisname. Please cheer up, Hagrid, we saved the Stone, it's gone,he can't use it. Have a Chocolate Frog, I've got loads...."
Hagrid wiped his nose on the back of his hand and said, "Thatreminds me. I've got yeh a present."
"It's not a stoat sandwich, is it?" said Harry anxiously, and atlast Hagrid gave a weak chuckle. "Nah. Dumbledore gave me the dayoff yesterday ter fix it. 'Course, he shoulda sacked me instead --anyway, got yeh this..."
It seemed to be a handsome, leather-covered book. Harry openedit curiously. It was full of wizard photographs. Smiling and wavingat him from every page were his mother and father.
"Sent owls off ter all yer parents' old school friends, askin'fer photos... knew yeh didn' have any... d'yeh like it?"
Harry couldn't speak, but Hagrid understood.
Harry made his way down to the end-of-year feast alone thatnight. He had been held up by Madam Pomfrey's fussing about,insisting on giving him one last checkup, so the Great Hall wasalready full. It was decked out in the Slytherin colors of greenand silver to celebrate Slytherin's winning the house cup for theseventh year in a row. A huge banner showing the Slytherin serpentcovered the wall behind the High Table.
When Harry walked in there was a sudden hush, and then everybodystarted talking loudly at once. He slipped into a seat between Ronand Hermione at the Gryffindor table and tried to ignore the factthat people were standing up to look at him.
Fortunately, Dumbledore arrived moments later. The babbledied away.
"Another year gone!" Dumbledore said cheerfully. "And I musttrouble you with an old man's wheezing waffle before we sink ourteeth into our delicious feast. What a year it has been! Hopefullyyour heads are all a little fuller than they were... you havethe whole summer ahead to get them nice and empty before nextyear starts....
"Now, as I understand it, the house cup here needs awarding,and the points stand thus: In fourth place, Gryffindor, withthree hundred and twelve points; in third, Hufflepuff, with threehundred and fifty-two; Ravenclaw has four hundred and twenty-sixand Slytherin, four hundred and seventy- two."
A storm of cheering and stamping broke out from the Slytherintable. Harry could see Draco Malfoy banging his goblet on thetable. It was a sickening sight.
"Yes, Yes, well done, Slytherin," said Dumbledore. "However,recent events must be taken into account."
The room went very still. The Slytherins' smiles faded a little.
"Ahem," said Dumbledore. "I have a few last-minute points todish out. Let me see. Yes...
"First -- to Mr. Ronald Weasley..."
Ron went purple in the face; he looked like a radish with abad sunburn.
"...for the best-played game of chess Hogwarts has seen in manyyears, I award Gryffindor house fifty points."
Gryffindor cheers nearly raised the bewitched ceiling; thestars overhead seemed to quiver. Percy could be heard telling theother prefects, "My brother, you know! My youngest brother! Gotpast McGonagall's giant chess set!"
At last there was silence again.
"Second -- to Miss Hermione Granger... for the use of coollogic in the face of fire, I award Gryffindor house fifty points."
Hermione buried her face in her arms; Harry strongly suspectedshe had burst into tears. Gryffindors up and down the table werebeside themselves -- they were a hundred points up. "Third -- toMr. Harry Potter..." said Dumbledore. The room went deadly quietfor pure nerve and outstanding courage, I award Gryffindor housesixty points."
The din was deafening. Those who could add up while yellingthemselves hoarse knew that Gryffindor now had four hundred andseventy-two points -- exactly the same as Slytherin. They had tiedfor the house cup -- if only Dumbledore had given Harry just onemore point.
Dumbledore raised his hand. The room gradually fell silent.
"There are all kinds of courage," said Dumbledore, smiling. "Ittakes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but justas much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten pointsto Mr. Neville Longbottom."
Someone standing outside the Great Hall might well have thoughtsome sort of explosion had taken place, so loud was the noise thaterupted from the Gryffindor table. Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood upto yell and cheer as Neville, white with shock, disappeared undera pile of people hugging him. He had never won so much as a pointfor Gryffindor before. Harry, still cheering, nudged Ron in theribs and pointed at Malfoy, who couldn't have looked more stunnedand horrified if he'd just had the Body-Bind Curse put on him.
"Which means, Dumbledore called over the storm of applause,for even Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff were celebrating the downfall ofSlytherin, "we need a little change of decoration."
He clapped his hands. In an instant, the green hangings becamescarlet and the silver became gold; the huge Slytherin serpentvanished and a towering Gryffindor lion took its place. Snapewas shaking Professor McGonagall's hand, with a horrible, forcedsmile. He caught Harry's eye and Harry knew at once that Snape'sfeelings toward him hadn't changed one jot. This didn't worryHarry. It seemed as though life would be back to normal next year,or as normal as it ever was at Hogwarts.
It was the best evening of Harry's life, better than winningat Quidditch, or Christmas, or knocking out mountain trolls... hewould never, ever forget tonight.
Harry had almost forgotten that the exam results were still tocome, but come they did. To their great surprise, both he and Ronpassed with good marks; Hermione, of course, had the best grades ofthe first years. Even Neville scraped through, his good Herbologymark making up for his abysmal Potions one. They had hoped thatGoyle, who was almost as stupid as he was mean, might be thrownout, but he had passed, too. It was a shame, but as Ron said,you couldn't have everything in life.
And suddenly, their wardrobes were empty, their trunks werepacked, Neville's toad was found lurking in a corner of the toilets;notes were handed out to all students, warning them not to use magicover the holidays ("I always hope they'll forget to give us these,"said Fred Weasley sadly); Hagrid was there to take them down to thefleet of boats that sailed across the lake; they were boarding theHogwarts Express; talking and laughing as the countryside becamegreener and tidier; eating Bettie Bott's Every Flavor Beans as theysped past Muggle towns; pulling off their wizard robes and puttingon jackets and coats; pulling into platform nine and three-quartersat King's Cross Station.
It took quite a while for them all to get off the platform. Awizened old guard was up by the ticket barrier, letting them gothrough the gate in twos and threes so they didn't attract attentionby all bursting out of a solid wall at once and alarming the Muggles.
"You must come and stay this summer," said Ron, "both of you --I'll send you an owl."
"Thanks," said Harry, "I'll need something to look forwardto." People jostled them as they moved forward toward the gatewayback to the Muggle world. Some of them called:
"Bye, Harry!"
"See you, Potter!"
"Still famous," said Ron, grinning at him.
"Not where I'm going, I promise you," said Harry.
He, Ron, and Hermione passed through the gateway together. "Therehe is, Mom, there he is, look!"
It was Ginny Weasley, Ron's younger sister, but she wasn'tpointing at Ron.
"Harry Potter!" she squealed. "Look, Mom! I can see
"Be quiet, Ginny, and it's rude to point."
Mrs. Weasley smiled down at them.
"Busy year?" she said.
"Very," said Harry. "Thanks for the fudge and the sweater,Mrs. Weasley."
"Oh, it was nothing, dear."
"Ready, are you?"
It was Uncle Vernon, still purple-faced, still mustached,still looking furious at the nerve of Harry, carrying an owl in acage in a station full of ordinary people. Behind him stood AuntPetunia and Dudley, looking terrified at the very sight of Harry.
"You must be Harry's family!" said Mrs. Weasley.
"In a manner of speaking," said Uncle Vernon. "Hurry up, boy,we haven't got all day." He walked away.
Harry hung back for a last word with Ron and Hermione.
"See you over the summer, then."
"Hope you have -- er -- a good holiday," said Hermione, lookinguncertainly after Uncle Vernon, shocked that anyone could be sounpleasant.
"Oh, I will," said Harry, and they were surprised at the grinthat was spreading over his face. "They don't know we're not allowedto use magic at home. I'm going to have a lot of fun with Dudleythis summer...."
THE END